144r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f293.image



p144r_1

Turtles

 

Turtles are much more beautiful and easier to mould than tortoises, being that they are flatter and have a longer head and tail, and straighter legs and release better than tortoises, who are scraggly, wrinkled, and deeply entrenched in their shells.  They tortoises also have a rounder top shell which is however narrower on the sides than in the middle, which means that the top shell cannot be nicely molded in one go, like those top shells of turtles.  Thus you will mould the top shell into two pieces, and the lower shell into  two, three, or four pieces according to their appropriateness. If you want to release your turtle from the mold without burning it, you must mold it in several pieces.  But if you want to burn what is inside, you can mold your top shell in one piece. So to get started, once you have completely killed it in vinegar and urine, as we know, leave it to fully dry out.  And clean it well with a cloth.  Then take your clay base place it on it, and scrape the base a bit so that the undershell fixes in. Having nevertheless previously arranged the head with a strong needle, as you do with other animals, holding it high by means of a bit of fresh clay that you will work with from beneath. Stretch the aforesaid head and legs with your little pincers. Once the head is in place, dextrously put a grain of yellow millet into each eye with the pincers, because as soon as they die, the eyes pop out and rot. You can do the same for any other animal with a large amaranth seed, a small one, or a grain of rapeseed. This done, you will arrange the legs, securing them with little iron needles.  And then plug with clay the holes all the empty spaces around the turtle, that is to say, what is in between the two shells, so that the sand does not hinder the releasing of it.  And because the legs must be lower than the bottom shell, make a little dimple in your clay base to accommodate them. Your turtle

left-top

When they are the well tender and mortifiees &amp; left aside, in two or three days you will be able to bend and manipulate them better.



fig_p144r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5emg1MXZLREtSRk0

left-middle



left-bottom

animal eyes of my own invention



fig_p144r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5ZkN6Y3ZTM1pKRG8

left-bottom





144v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f294.image





p144r_1

having been thusly arranged and well cleaned with brushes, put the circle of clay around the base. Then, with a roll of clay placed on the middle of the back of the turtle, as you can see, and at the widest place, divide your mold. Next, oil with your oiling brush half the half of the shell you want to mold. If you sand is a bit thick, temper your sand with warm water, so that without burning yourself you can put your finger in it without burning it. And before casting it, rub the shell with spirits. And then cast your sand and let it take hold.  And note that all things that have shells, or that are hard, or do not yield as snakes and lizards do, must be oiled to come out cleanly. The things that yield do not need this. Warm water means that the tempered sand sits better on the oil, which otherwise would not work.  With the half turtle having been thusly molded, separate it with its mold from its clay base, which you will put aside to use when needed. Then clean your half-mold, join it and flatten it like for the others. But because there will be the roll of clay, the half mold will have more than just half the turtle in it, cut and crop cleanly the excess clay and clean everything well with the brushes.  Then at the top of the edge of the mold on the side where it is cut, at the halfway mark, make two notches as you have done with other molds. And flip the turtle on its base, as it was, and secure the two legs that are not molded with iron pins and fill the empty areas around it, up to the edge of the top shell with some clay. Then place the circle around it and place a roll of clay on the first mold, a bit above the notches. And having oiled the first half-mold and its notches and the shell of the turtle, and having also sprinkled it with spirits, warm your water, temper your sand with a bit of salt water, ammoniac, and the aforesaid hot water, make your cast. Having taken hold, keep the sides of the two molds neatly together, and for each side secure the joints, which are not prone to do so naturally, with two clamps, so that when you uncover the bottom of the turtle the top joint does not open. Then open the side with the belly and the throat, in the same manner that you would open a crayfish, which is the hardest animal to mold of all animals that are molded in two parts.



fig_p144v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5ZGhySWFITlRSaG8

left-top





fig_p144v_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5SlhGM2FYLUUteXc

left-middle



left-bottomYou can also mold your turtle in one piece for each side, but you will need to burn it.  And then to make the hollow, the recooked mold cannot be well-oiled because it absorbs the oil.

 

left-bottom+

If there is crocum in your sand, the joints of the molds will not join well together. 

bottom

Turn to the second leaf.

145r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f295.image

 



p145r_1

Casting in three frames

You can cast bronze mortars and similar things which release well in three frames. That is to say the body of the mortar in one, its noyau in the other, and the base of the mortar in the third one, because otherwise the cast which is there will not release well.

 

top-leftInquire



fig_p145r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5MXRaSldvRzY2UTg



A





p145r_2

Cuttlefish bone

You must not the the tin or lead too hotly, otherwise they will burn the bone and become lumpy. And to know when it is the right temperature, dip in it a little piece of twisted paper. If it turns black without catching fire, it is the right temperature. But if it burns &amp; catches fire, it is too hot. You can cast gold &amp; silver, but it never comes out neatly. To cast something delicate well, it is necessary that the bone not be extremely dry, because it is rough &amp; does not release as well &amp; crumbles &amp; is brittle. In any case, before you cast, dry them the bones &amp; especially for gold, which does not react well to humidity. You will know that they are dry enough when, after having exposed the insides and the imprint to the fire, they hiss &amp; crackle when you bring them near your ear. Now join the bones &amp; daub the joints with a little lute and slowly dry it near the fire &amp; cast &amp; then shake the mold or scratch the rough crannies and let it cool down before opening it. Usually one cuts the bone in the middle, and the dull part that does not have half circles  is more delicate and smoother to mold with, and therefore one always uses it to do the main part of the casting, the other part of the cuttlefish bone is crumbly on the inside as on the outside. Therefore one does not use this to cast delicate things which need to be molded in two places. One evens out &amp; flattens these two halves on some piece of wood, then one rubs some charcoal on top sot that it releases well. And to make sure the charcoal is evenly spread everywhere, tap the side of the hand which is holding the half bone. Both having been covered in charcoal, take the first bone that has been prepared &amp; rounded on the edges, and having placed the medal above it, press the medal down strongly.



145v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f296.image





p145r_2

But with fingers you cannot press evenly, because if you press on the edges, the middle will remain hollow. Start therefore with the middle, &amp; then do the edges. But to do it better, put something flat &amp; even on the medal, or some large square file, &amp; press with that; because you will press evenly, sometimes with your knee, other times with your foot with your shoe taken off. &amp; do it from above, so that you impress it without breaking it. If it is not well molded on the first go, do it again several times. Then restore and flatten your halves of molded bone from the sides. And to cut them well, always start from the most tractable part, coming out to the shell. And if your medal does not come out on its own, scratch the rough bone from behind and it will strip. When you want to cast, settle &amp; affix the two bones with little pins of wood &amp; in order to cast neatly, you have only to try it with sand.





p145v_1

Moulding herbs and flowers

You do not need thin sheets of clay, because the herbs and flowers will not lay on it, but as it were in the air, not touching any thing from any side, so you only have need of a circle &amp; contour that is higher than for flat molds. And in this way, take heed to make it strong and thick, with the heft that you find suitable. Otherwise, it will sink in when the sand is inside. Fix &amp; fortify it well with your foot &amp; firmly attach all the joints. Then, have your flower well attached &amp; assuredly fixed to the bottom of the casting with wax that is not at all rough, but smooth, so that it can strip off well. Then moisten your flower or herb in good spirits in a tall glass.





p145v_2

left-top

+

Flowers



When you mold them, if they are not strong enough to hold themselves upright, run a thread through the mold to keep them lest they do not hoist themselves up. &amp; cast the sand little by little &amp; continuously and blow on it strongly and constantly so that it covers everywhere. Otherwise, it will become lumpy. Since you won't put anything in thin sheets of clay, the mold sometimes sticks to the table on which you mold. To release it, strike a great blow on the side of the table with a hammer.

 



fig_p145v_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5b1FOQ1Z5b1J3TWc

left-bottom



left-bottom

It's enough to reheat your clayed mold once for flowers &amp; to heat it the second time if you cast in tin &amp; lead, insomuch as for gold &amp; silver, you have to reheat it twice.

 

bottom

When very red, cast your tin into the mold when it is so hot that you can[not?] hold your finger in the hole without [illeg].



146r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f297.image





p145v_2

so that it is wet everywhere. If not, wet it with a large brush dedicated to this. Then pass the end of an iron wire that holds the wax casting through the end of the mold that closes the circle and have the iron cleave the clay mold as you see; &amp; position it on the bottom, attending that the herb or flower does not touch anything, and leave some thickness to your mold, because the moistened sand always elevates the herb or flower. Even so, if it isn't thick of its own accord, pass a slender thread through the flower with a needle to keep it elevated. Or, if you forget this, lower the flower with a little stick just until the cast sand starts to thicken. With your flower well-positioned, take a platter large enough to moisten all the sand that you will need to fill the mold. Put a little sal ammoniac water in it, and then some spring water, and when your platter is almost full, put a sprinkle of your sand on it, &amp; mix it, &amp; steep it until it becomes totally uniform, because if it were to clot it would consume the mold. For flowers it does not need to be very thick. And likewise, at the beginning, when you just barely pour it so it remains transparent on your flower &amp; covers it sort of half way, blow strongly everywhere so that you eliminate the little bubbles, and afterwards finish filling it &amp; blow, always slightly tilting your mold down towards its larger side. And if you find some remainder of thick sand that was not well soaked, set it rather close to the casting than otherwise. Then you can cast some thicker moistened sand to make it set sooner. I molded a marigold, with its leaves, in this manner. Crocum ferri is safer for flowers, and when there is some crocum, clay it with the same sand that has already been used and is the most excellent of all.

 

left-top

The stem on which I cast a large branch of marigold with its flower, its buds and its leaves came out neatly, just like nature, was made of one lb. of fine tin mixed with two ounces of lead.

left-top

If there are a few froths, fix it with a pen knife.

left-top

Uncover the molded flower while gently breaking the mold with the point of a knife. And, even better, soak it well in water. Afterwards, try a pig brush at the end of an iron wire, etc.

left-middle

When the mold is reheated for the first time, leave it to cool down halfway. Then, run an iron wire gentle through the casting to make an opening for the burned ash inside. Afterwards, blow inside with a bellows and turn the mold over on the casting to make everything leave, &amp; sometimes blow and suck in with your mouth.

left-bottom

Heed that you not attach the stem of the flower too firmly to the casting with wax, lest it consume something when you remove the wax from the casting. To remove it, you have to loosen it a bit all around &amp; then draw it out by the iron wire with little pincers.146v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f298.image



p146v_1

Moldingturtles

This page is the continuation of the preceding second page.Since you have cleanly uncovered the part of the belly of turtle, its underparts, its throat, and its legs, and having cleaned it all well, do not forget to neatly uncover the cavity that these animals have in their shell between the neck and the shoulders. Turtles do not have as deep of a cavity as tortoises, which are more scraggly, and even amongst those, there are some that have a deeper cavity than others.  Do not therefore forget to neatly uncover all of this in order to better represent its likeness.  But if there is a cavity which spirals too much inside, and is not visible, nor releases well, apply some small lumps of wax and with heated needles of thick iron and work the aforesaid wax.  Then plug the entrance to all of these cavities with soft clay. Put the circle of clay around the mold, which has already been made of two pieces and contains the back of the turtle. And to mold its belly, you must separate it in three as you can see.  That is to say, you will put a roll of clay on top of the throat and another one on the edge of the shell of its tail, so that only the shell of the entire stomach will be accessible to be molded on its own.  Having oiled the shell of the belly and having rubbed it with spirits, thrown you slightly thick sand, which has been tempered with hot water as before.  Having taken hold, remove the rolls of clay, then uncover the front and back legs, that is to say the bottom bit, and the throat and the tail, and remove the clay of all the cavities in one go if you can, because this will show you if the cavity will release well.  And if the removed clay carries with it some of the wax you have applied, put it back into the places that did not release well, as has been said.  And if some bit of the turtle has come away with the clay, or fallen off, attach and rejoin it to the mold with some wax, using a heated iron needle.  Do not forget to put some melted wax at the edge of the turtle's nails when you cast.  Having molded and uncovered the shell of the belly, you will see the mold in this way.#



fig_p146v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5bUk2c1E3LWtOTDA

left-middle





fig_p146v_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5WGEzek5peHJ6VDA

left-bottom





147r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f299.image



 

p146v_1

Be warned to make an edge of wax melted with a warm wire all around the edge of the top shell which is close to the tail in order to make a better cast. And make it so that two small strings of the same wax goes from the end of the shell of the belly to the aforesaid wax edge, which is around the backbone of the shell, and the turtle's tail should stay in between those two strings.  This to make a better cast.  This done, oil your mold and what you can see of the shell.  Put the circle around this, and cast with hot water as before, and doing what you have done in the same manner to mold the third part which is the tail. And having taken hold, take away the clay contours, clean your mold, bring it together, and flatten it on all sides with a knife as you have done with other molds.  Lightly dip it in water, then try to release it.  Usually, one starts by the shell of the back, which is to say the top mold that is made of two halves.  And this one is easier to release.  The other follows directly after, but because it is next to the turtle's shoulders which are deeply entrenched, it is sometimes troublesome to do this when lightly shaking and pulling the mold.  Be advised to pull the easiest one first, because you will need to release them one after the other. The hardest one of all is the one molding the throat, the underside of the legs, and the cavities of the shoulders, which are so difficult to release, that if you do not plan accordingly by filling it with wax rather than molding what cannot been released, it will be difficult to take the pieces without breaking something.  But if it happens to you again, there is a solution, provided that you keep the broken pieces, because you can reassemble them with stong iron needles, and fill whatever crack or flaw you have with some melted wax and hot iron as you have with others so that the noyau to mold hollow is easier to do. After

bottomSee the second page

 

left-bottomTo prevent breaking while releasing, be advised to  uncover up to the point where it can still hold.



147v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f300.image





p147v_1

+

Casting with copper alloyed with ☾, which is like very low solder and ard[...]es and old K and some Re out of xii

 

I have cast the cleanest I have ever seen, making very small figures as thin as paper. I have cast extremely hot in the very red mold, and have put into the melted mixture the two compositions which makes silver runny, and have done as if I wanted to throw with pure silver.  This league is white when it boils, as with every other alloy which contains even just a small bit of silver. To cast something very delicate, use this.



 



p147v_2

Lute

There is none better than the one you have used to mold, that is to say lumps from your molds.  But you need to choose some of the better recooked ones.



p147v_3

Crucible

 

Beware that it should be three fingers away from the mouth of the bellows and that the aforesaid bellows is positioned underneath the bottom of the crucible, otherwise it will cool it down.

 



p147v_4

Latten casting

 

I have taken the one you find in latten skillets, which have been beaten and forged quite thinly.  Having well-heated it, I threw in two or three grains, like beads of sal ammonicac.  This will clarify it like a mirror, having turned very white from all the heating, I threw in it some crushed raw and pure calamine.  The I casted it in its very red mold. Il cast cleanly and thin like paper, and hollow on the back.  Because it has become crusty I cooked it again, which to means to say, I reddened it, and left it to cool, then put it in bleach, made partly with raw tartar and half of common salt.  Having boiled it well, I brushed it in clear water, because the first time it was

 



left-bottomDo not let it cool down when melting. It always makes into filaments, as you would find with melted glass, because of the calamine.  Usually, the soft letten of skillets, becomes red from casting, even when it has been in the fire for a longtime, because the calamine evaporates.  But the brittle letten of candleholders becomes yellow, as well as the filings made of needles.



148r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f301.image





p147v_4

not come out as clear as I wanted. I reheated it again, let it cool, put it into the bleach again, and brushed [it].  It came out very clear.  In this way, you will do [the same] for copper and silver.  And if you want to give...





p148r_1

Beautiful color for brass

Having cleaned it well, as is stated, and brushed it well, boil it in water with curcuma root or terra merita, and it will become very beautiful.





p148r_2

Bleach

If it is for silver, do not grind your tartar with something made of iron, but with the handle of a hammer, because if you touch [your tartar with iron] and [end up] getting some iron in your bleach, the silver will come out red, like copper, and you will need to reheat it and put it back in the bleach.  Mix in nothing with your tartar that should not enter the bleach, because this ruins it. Do not let it spill out when it first starts to boil because all its strength is in it [at this point].  Bleach is made with one part pulverized tartar and a half part of common salt.





p148r_3

 

Moulding the foot of the bittern, or eagle, or other birds for the base of saltcellars or vases

One commonly molds the foot and the legs up until the calf.  And for this effect, one molds it in five pieces: the leg in two pieces, the top of the foot in two, and the bottom in one piece.

left-bottomwith three pieces

 



p148r_4

Crocum Ferri

To make this quickly, redden the filings in an iron ladle, stirring it often.  Then sprinkle it with some good vinegar and let it evaporate.  And without taking it away from above the fire, let it redden and take flame.  Having been cooled, pulverise [it] on the marble and return it to the heat, sprinkle with vinegar, and then set it on fire.  In this way it will soon be colored and made fine.  

148v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f302.image



p148v_1 

Molding turtles

Join the parts of your mold and fix very carefully clamps on all joints, which are on the top, the bottom and the sides of the mold; do not forget to notch the joints as you did with the other moulds. Once you have fixed all the clamps, remove the sides ones, not the others. Thus your mold, made of several pieces, will open as if it was only made of two parts. If you want to mould hollow, pierce a hole big enough to thread the end of your little finger in the middle of your mold's belly. Widen the outside of the hole, like clervois, in order to cast the core. You could avoid all these difficulties if you didn't mold hollow; you could then mold your turtle in two pieces, more quickly, and burn it inside of the mold like other animals. But a turtle is weighty, and would be heavy if not molded hollow. This is why it is considered better to mold it that way.  It takes three days to make the proper hollow mould. To mold hollow and fantastic forms, you need very strong plaster which can withstand fire without bursting. But if you can't get this kind of plaster, add to it a little more stone alum, and also add crocum, which fortifies it the plaster and makes the flaws -- if there are any -- so fine that they can be easily removed. Do not forget to tighten your mould with a press in order to avoid flaws that happen when your mold is not tight enough, or when it bursts. To repair it, if the lines are not apparent enough retrace with a burin, then soften the lines with a ciselet. You can remove the flaws with a chaple,  a kind of burin. For the lumps  and crumbly bits, they can be made with a gadet  or a  small carving tool which isn't hammered, and hitting with a small file.

 

left-topMake this hole before joining the mould.149r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f303.image



p149r_1

Softening iron and making it really soft

Take some sublimate, some quicklime, soap from Venice, some horse manure, use less sublimate than the other ingredients. Moisten all of them together, forming a paste and apply this to the iron, and wrap the whole thing in a dirty rag. Then reheat it until it becomes very red. Or leave it overnight in a good fire until the morning.  It will be very soft and you will be able to engrave whatever you wish on it.



p149r_2

Gold of lesser quality from Germany, Electre

One calls it gold from the Rhine, which you can find in the rivers, and it comes in gold flakes. German goldsmiths wanted to refine it, thinking that they could separate it from the whitenes, which they thought was silver. But it always stayed white, which proves that this whiteness is fixed and it's only fault lies in its color. This is electre, from which you can make cups, which will reveal poison.



p149r_3

 

Various arts from Germany

They make great use of water mills, and most of these artisans working with gold, silver, and any other metal, bring their large works to the mills to be hammered.  And to pull iron thread, they heat large amounts of iron, making it into a point, they hang it up still red, and very quickly pull it.



p149r_4

Reparing medals

If you want to mold any medal to use as a model, and at the same time repair it, cast it in a greater quantity of tin, and put in it a good amount of tin alloy to make it harder.  149v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f304.image



p149v_1 

Molding vases in several pieces

Goldsmiths who make large works and crockery use a turning lathe to get the model they wish in wood. Then with some wax, the goldsmithsmodel on top of this the masks, festoons, or anything that they wish. Then they mould the model in three, four, or several pieces.





p149v_2 

Gold solder

They take on a gold penny a small pinch of refined aloc, as you would find in old sous. 





p149v_3 

Molding flies

Large flies can be molded &amp; cast. But you must apply underneath their wings some wheat oil, which dries quickly and firms them up &amp; gives them a little thickness. The same thing can be done with butterflies, cicadas, grasshoppers &amp; similar things. But to cast them more easily, you must set them on some leaf or bouquet. The others should be placed by hand on a very slender silver blade. You cannot keep your insects when they are dead, since they will dry out and their legs will break.

left-bottom

Wheat oil should be put underneath delicate things to make them more rigid &amp; firm, &amp; to make them hold their natural posture, since being weak &amp; delicate, the tempered sand, adding weight to them, would change their form.



p149v_4 

Bats

 

They have very thin wings and if they are large &amp; dry and the wings are extended, you need a very big mold &amp; it is not certain that the metal will run sufficiently; thus, when you want to mold some, choose the medium-sized ones &amp; and arrange them so that they have  their wings are half folded, since in this way they will come out better. But be sure to apply, as you known, some wax on the side of the wings, so that the cast flows well.

150r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f305.image



p150r_1

Very strong wax

Mix with this some resin and bole. Do not cast very hot.

 



p150r_2

Diverse ligues of tin and lead

For hollow things like turtles, use half refined lead and half tin.

For flowers, use almost all lead, that is to say, a lb of refined tin, and two ℥ of refined lead.

For lizards that are as thick as one or two fingers, use almost all lead, that is to say, a lb of refined lead and 4 ℥ of refined tin.

 



p150r_3

Moulds

They are less prone to cracking while reheating when they are very thick, rather than thin, provided that thickness is sufficient. Because when they are thin, they do not need to be fired for long, and prolonged exposure to heat corrupts them. The same thing will happen if you plaster is not strong.

It is better to reheat one mold on its own, rather than heating it with others, because should this be the case, you will need a stronger and hotter fire, than for just the one mold. And because charcoal will accumulate between multiple molds, the heat will transfer from mold to mold in such a way that you will often find that your molds have burst and crack on one side more than the other.

Therefore reheat your molds, not applying fire, except to cover it.

And because your lead and tin become brittle when melting the over high heat, in order to make them less brittle, heat them over low heat, and cast in stick form.

 

Brick cools the metal, and if this is not for binding, it is not necessary.

 

left-middleThe reheated moulds cannot withstand several casts, but the ones in which you only cast tin or lead and flat medals, these being dry, withstand a lot of casts.

left-middleIron filings being finely ground, makes them molds very firm and strong..150v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f306.image

 



p150v_1

Molding hollow 

This iron thread needle which you put thusly in the mold, is to better secure the noyau and keep it from shifting.  All of this having been thusly arranged, lay your mold on the table, hole facing upwards, as it is explained at the side. And then fashion a circle made of soft clay, of about two fingers high around the hole, as you have done with other molds. And then temper your molding sand to an average thickness, and throw it in the hole until it mold is very very full, that is to say until you reach the clay circle. Be advised not to throw it sand in the middle of the hole, but from the sides, because the already made mold, will drink and suck the moisture.  And the new sand that you throw on the sides of the mold, because drying quickly, will plug the mold and not leave you enough time to fill up. Whereas if you throw it the sand from the side, when you realize it is drying too quickly and plugs up, you can make a path for it.  Having thrown it in, blow on the tempered sand, and insert the tip of your finger in the hole a few times, or some kind of pointy thing to keep it moist, in order to make sure that the hollow wax does not fill up. At the end throw in the thicker tempered sand to strengthen the mold, because when water rises up to the edge of the mold, it always makes it softer.  Having taken hold, get rid of the clay circle and any raised parts that relate to the hole through which you threw the noyau, and you will not even realize the process took place. Once your mold has been thusly prepared, lute its outside with the same sand that you used to make the mold.  Then reheat it on with a low heat to begin with, slant the mouth of the cast downwards so that the wax trickles out slowly, because if you reheat it over very high heat to make the wax come out, it will boil inside it the mold, and will leave blisters and lumpy bits on it the cast, as long as

 



left-top

This iron thread needle is placed in the middle and the hole of the cast, when the mold is in many pieces, as is the one for turtles.  And you do this so that the noyau does not shift.  But when the mold is made out of only two pieces, it is not necessary to put needles in the middle.



fig_p150v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5eVVJSjUwSFhpUzg





fig_p150v_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5SUk5cUNtNnpqbXc





left-topRather than cast the noyau, make some notches around the edge of the hole through which you would like to cast, so that your mold is even more secure.

  

left-topMixed tallow means that when you empty your wax when you are emptying the mold of wax, it does not clog.

left-middleYou will need half tallow and half black wax.

left-middleEvery thick piece comes out better when molded hollow, because a thick mass of mostly lead will stay warm for a long time and eat away at the mold.

left-bottomAfter the cast, you can mold the part of the shell of the belly where you made your hole on the real thing animal and fix it with solder.

left-bottom

XNote that after your noyau has been cast, it is better to put your mold in hot water to open it, so that you can take away as much wax as you can, always softening it in the hot water. Because the less wax you have on it, the better it is, because it will reboil when you reheat your mold, and you will get blisters and lumps. And if you have little wax left in the mold you will not need to reheat it as much.  When you open your mold the cast will break.  But it can easily be repaired as long as you castA



 

 151r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f307.image





p150v_1

the white wax you have used to make black sulfured wax has so little substance, being dry and purified, that it leaves nothing with it the mold mentioned in the first part of this recipe and trickles very gently. As for the coal which is mixed in it, if there is some left, it burns and reduces to ash, and can be taken out afterwards by blowing into the cast.  You can open your mold after the wax has been melted, if it does not contain a fantastical piece which could break, which are like pieces added on or similar.  After having covered the clamps with lute from your sand, and having covered the entire mold, add to this a layer of common luth, and then sprinkle ground brick so that you can better manipulate it.  Leave the lute to dry slowly, rather than putting it in the fire, which will melt the wax.  The wax, having exited the cast, that which remains of it, mixed up with the charcoal, will burn. Having reheated it for the first time, lute it again, because should your plaster be bad, it will have eaten away at the mold and it will be found in the space between joints, which can result in large overflow. And for the second time, you must not reheat it if you want to cast only in lead or in tin, simply make sure that the lute is very dry and your mold attains an average heat.  For those very large turtles that have enough thickness, it is better to cast using an alloy of half tin and half lead, as you do with hollow things.  Because if you only need to cast very thin and fragile things like flowers, rely instead on using more lead than tin, which bubbles when cast a bit thickly and will easily some flaws to your cast. Mr. Alexander says he has never gone astray with using half tin and half lead for things that are heavy and as thick as the back of a knife.  If there is crocum, you will not be able to clearly see the joints and as a consequence the metal overflow is very small and thin.  You can repair this, and through the hole of the belly draw out the earth from the noyau, leaving it to soak for a long time. 

left-topWhen you have thrown your black wax in the mold and it has well-cooled, you will have to open half of your mold to make your cast.  Should your black wax figure break, there is no danger, because it can always be reattached with a hot iron needle. Or if the pieces have not separated well from their mold, they will meet up and join as before, by joining and tightening the two halves of the mold. When your figure is big, you must interweave more iron threads inside to give support to the noyau.



fig_p151r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dEhadHEzVWlxejg





 

left-bottom

Aonly in lead or in tin. You must however heat the mold as much as if you were about to burn an animal inside, so that the wax melts well and leaves nothing inside, and trickles out while holding the mold slanted towards the cast and at the same time reheating it. And when the mold has been reheated, leave it to cool slowly, then blow inside and suck out the wax ashes. Do this with a bellows. 



151v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f308.image





p150v_1

However, do not remove it before you have prepared the whole turtle, because you will use this earth as cement, should you need embed something or make repairs with a chisel. If you have some metal overflow at the joints of your mold, you will remove it, either with a burin, called a chaple, or with a very sharp pen-knife, or with a small file followed by the chisel.  Always keeping in front of you the real thing to do as best you can. You can curl on a file a chisel point, which is not at all moistened, to make something lumpy. For these turtles and any other hollow things which you can assume are quite big, create a ligue of half lead and half refined tin. There is more to do when molding a turtle than when molding a dozen flowers.  If there is crocum in your sand, there will be no metal overflow and if you are unfortunate enough that there should be some on the sides, these will be as thin as paper, as long as your mold is very tightly pressed together.  And to make the scales of turtles and other animals, you can make little chisel marks in the shape of round punch cutters, others in the shape of a gouge, or shaped like a snake or lizard scale, and other using a file used to make twisty bits and lumps. Turtles that do not need to be molded hollow are not as much work, because they are molded in two pieces and repair them with little chisels that make punch cutters, little couge, and serrated chisels.



fig_p151v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5bk1US2QxRTVwa2s

left-middle









p151v_1

Wheat oil

 

You must make it between two empty iron blades, the bottom one in particular will be slanted downwards and on this one you will put an even and equal layer of wheat.  Then you will place on it the other blade, which is very hot, and you will press it down until you see the black oil drip. Remove the top blade when you have enough.  This oil dries very quickly.  It gilds silver and varnished things, deepens the color of gilded things, can be used as a varnish on iron before you engrave it, and to varnish the tanned leather parts of sword hilts.  And it could also be used by those who make gilded leather.

left-bottomYou must use this, as has been done recently.  And for things you need to mold, it must not be as thick as for dyeing.



 

left-bottomYou cannot use this to oil hairy animals, because it is too strong and rigid, but it is good to apply to the foot of a little animal, like a fly and other similar things. It is also excellent to dye white stones [illisible]152r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f309.image



p152r_1

Molding a rat

The hairs of his whiskers are difficult to come out of the mold, you can therefore burn them away, as did the Tyrant of Syracuse, which you can always replace with life-like silver ones. The tail comes out beautifully because it is made of little scale-like circles, almost like the ones of a lizard.  And to make sure that the hair does not keep you from molding well, burn them away with a little candle. The rest of the body must be oiled with wheat oil, which will keep the hair rigid and flat, so that it will not be removed when it mixes with the sand, which will keep you cast from releasing cleanly.  Wheat oil, being dry, will dry quickly, you will therefore be able to comb the hair with a very fine comb, so that the hair will be visible when cast.  On a small mouse you can use common oil to flatten the hair.  Rather than molding these animals immediately (except for snakes and lizards), keep them dead for a day a two so that they become easier to handle.  Because they are very stiff after they die and cannot be shaped into a life-like looking position unless they are softened.  However, if you mold it straight after it dies, and give it its shape before it becomes stiff, that will be good.  And because the eyes die unless you mold them immediately, you can replace them with half a round pea taken out of its shell.  Some cast their rats without any added preparations; others oil them with olive oil which suits the purpose, because wheat oil is thick and has too much body.  This is why we only use it wheat oil in light strokes on fly's feet or beneath a wing, to keep them stiff. Others flatten the hair with an egg yolk, which dries quickly and does the job.  Arrange it the rat on its clay base before oiling it.  Raise its head with an iron needle, and also secure its feet with needles, and it tail.  Rub it with spirits after the oil has dried.  Then throw in your sand. Uncover it as you would other animals, then do your second casting.  You must not open the mold until it is completely reheated and the rat has burned away.

 

left-top+If it is a big rat, it is better to cast it hollow, because it is thick.  A mouse is easier to mold because it has shorter hair.  It is impossible to mold an animal with big bones well, such as a bird or rat, without opening the mold to clean it well, because bones do not burn well.

left-middleAll kinds of feathers and hairs are difficult to mold realistically.

left-middleIt is better to use butter to grease hairy animals than wheat oil, because it is better suited to the purpose.

 

left-bottomIf the rat is big, it is better to remove its entrails, or having molded it, let it dry in an oven, because the large amount of moisture it contains would boil inside the mold, which would ruin it and make it lumpy.

 

left-bottomOnly put your mold in the oven after it has cooled, drying slowly, otherwise it will absorb the moisture and break.152v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f310.image



p152v_1

Repairing things that have been cast



It happens often that what you have cast has metal overflow, through a fault in the mold, the cast, or the metal. Faults in the mold arise from plaster which is not hard and strong and cannot withstand fire, which is corrected by mixing in crocum. If you use too much tin to cast things that are of an average thickness, it will not release well, because tin that is cast thickly, shrinks and bubbles.  Similarly, the things you need to mold hollow can be fantastical to cast.  If therefore you happen to have a flaw, have at your disposal a small leather pouch full of fine sand, and having placed it on the edge of a goldsmith's bench, where one files, place upon it your work, and secure it there with a rope which passes underneath your foot.  The sand in your pouch will respond to the pressure of your foot, and will immediately be thicker on one side and thinner on the other.  Then immediately with a burin, outline and quickly make the subtle parts of your cast which did not come out, or which did not come out distinctly enough, or with a file or a chaple, remove your metal overflow. If there is  a flaw in your materials that has left a hole or something too hollow, scrape it with a burin and make notches around that hole, then make an imprint of this with wax.  And place this imprint on a fine lead blade, and in this way mark the appropriate size of lead, or of any other alloy which resembles your casting material the most.  Then place this piece of work on the notched part and attach it well with some with yellow latten or copper wire - and if you are dealing with tin or lead rub in some rosin around the edge - and apply all around it the replacement piece some little thin pieces of solder or tin, or any other thing.  Then with a hot iron, or above the heat source of the forge, solder it together, and then repair all of this with the aforesaid tools and the appropriate chisels.

 

left-top

For gold or a small work, you will need to attach them to a lead ball, which you will then place on the leather pouch and it will help secure the piece with the rope.



fig_p152v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5S3NpRV82clA2UVE

left-middle





fig_p152v_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5cWhfVmhvbWszZlE

left-bottom



153r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f311.image



p153r_1

Moulding the hollow part of a mold for seals or other things

Firstly fashion your figure in wax on an even slab of glass or slate. After, mold it with our aforesaid sand, having beforehand lightly oiled it with oil as you know, and having rubbed it with spirits, while tempering your sand with hot water.  Having made the hollow part, cast it in lead, using the same alloy as you do for other figures that come out very neatly. However, if it does not release cleanly, repair it.  And then mold you lead relief with some wax. After, in your wax hollow part, throw in your tempered sand which will give you a relief, upon which you will cast your hollow part with silver, or any other metal used for seals.  But note that you must not make your hollow part with melted wax, but only with wax warmed in hot water, or even better in hot urine. Or else, if you have a relief in gold or silver, or any other very neat and flawless metal, mold your wax hollow part directly upon it, and throw your sand in it wax hollow, which will form your relief, upon which you will cast your hollow part to make your seal or any other work.  You could also cast a hollow part directly from the main part of your metal, even should you want to cast in lead or tin, which will not make the main part of your metal melt, if it has been lightly brushed with crushed chalk, or covered with candle soot, or with dried egg white.

 

left-topWhen you have the wax imprint of your seal, mold in a noyau this piece of wax, which is hollow like your seal, and your noyau will make a mold similar to the imprint and the seal.

 

left-middleYour wax must be mixed with a color that has little body, so that you may better see your imprint.  The lamp black or soot black is good for this.  White wax to do this is even better.



p153r_2

Giving a medal the thickness that you wish

Having cast your first mold, mix some crocum or well-ground iron scales to make it your mould firmer. And having taken hold, and made your hollow part very neat, take some paste made of fine



153v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f312.image





p153r_1

flour.  And to flatten it, take a small stick of wood that is round and of an even thickness, which has at both ends a small circle that sticks out from the rest, in order to give the necessary thickness to your paste.  And then with this rolling pin, flatten it so that it becomes thin and tenuous. Then apply it on the hollow part of your mold and press it down with cotton, and your figure will impress itself on the paste, in relief on one side, and hollow on the other.  This done, with a brush that is dipped in melted butter, grease the part of the paste that is hollow.  Then trim off the extra paste which extends beyond the hollow of the mold.  Also oil your mold with olive oil, as you have done with others. Apply your clay contour, and cast your second mold. And you will have a medal as thin and hollow on one side as you wish.  You can have various rolling pins which some edges are more raised than others, in order to make various thicknesses, or you can use sheets lead and copper of various thicknesses, or cardboard, all cut with the rolling pin.



fig_p153v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5czR5TF9scDhsSG8

left-top



 

left-topIf you were to oil your paste, the paste would absorb the oil and it the oil would penetrate through the paste, right up to the edge of the mold and attack it.  But butter remains on the surface of the paste, and does not penetrate it.  For these back bits, you must not temper your sand with hot water, because it will melt the butter.  

fig_p153v_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5c3FRZnZSMnU1Njg







p153v_1

Testing the virtues and strength of sand that is to be reheated

Once the sand has taken hold, you must find it soft and easy to cut, and not surly.  It is better to test it in a large and fantastical mold, rather than a small one, because the big one will stay in the fire longer and the small one reheats very quickly.

 



p153v_2

Softening gold

Sometimes, you can find gold that is so dry that neither cement nor antimony can soften it.  Only verdigris can soften this gold.

154r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f313.item.r=

p154r_a1Removing gold

Gold as gilding goes away if the coin is reheated and placed against a strong fire, even if there is lead, because lead, which contains much mercury will pierce a gold coin in a fire.

 

p154r_a2Cutting lead

Because it [lead] is fat, hard to catch and corrosive to the knife and the scissors, wet it up and you will [be able to] cut it like glass.

 

left-topSometimes, gold and silver, exposed to a certain kind of smoke, take on a coloration during the casting. But these are neither flakes nor coat but a colour which will go away during the whitening.

 

p154r_a3Softening silver

When goldsmiths who work on a large scale have forged their plates, to their loss [these plates] quite often break and crack because they have been sharpened too much. In order to avoid this, when it is quite melted, throw in ground dry mortar made of sand and good lime which has been used before.

 

left-middleGoldsmiths do not work with silver from real because it is rich in lead and becomes sour when forged.

 

For small works and things that need to go only once to the fire, some weld with some old sol or carolus reheated and beaten. However if the sol is not quite good [enough], the welding will not hold as there is too much copper and one will have to weld twice. Others weld with [an alloy made of] half silver and half fine copper.

 

p154r_a4Iron flakes

Once it is quite ground and refined on the marble slab and mixed with the sand from the core [mold], dry it slowing without reheating it, and it will allow for several casting of lead and tin. Copper and brass come out fine of it. But if it is not ground as finely as crocum, it sinks unless the sand is soaked and quite thick.

 

p154r_a5Metal file dust

It does not melt by itself if it is not helped with some portion of similar metal melted to assemble it and bathe it, as it is more burnt than melted. File dust from tin and lead are made with tallow, [file dust] from gold with saltpeter, [file dust] from silver with sandever.

154v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f314.image



p154v_1

Latten

Latten is wonderful to cast. It is necessary to be cast very hot. And to master it better, throw in some sal ammoniac to clarify it. You can also add a bit a red copper, and if you wish to, add in a bit of tin to make it runnier.  It always leaves filaments like melted glass. It does not require as long of a cast as others.

 



p154v_2

Moulding

It is a good thing that it be cooled on the outside, but nevertheless remain hot on the inside, because when it comes out of the fire, the air and the strong fumes from the fire do not reheat the cast well. 

 



p154v_3

Casting silver

Silver requires a long cast, whereas for gold it does not matter. Silver, when soldering, withstands the water you throw at it. Whereas gold sizzles, and because of this one throws its ? on the solder.

left-middle

Let the mold cool well after the casting, rather than opening it.



p154v_4

Strengthening flowers and delicate things

For flowers and small plants, do not use wheat oil. Instead, use some melted butter which you will apply lightly with a small brush on the back of the rose leaves, and pansies and any other flower that needs it. But one reinforces the little feet of flies and other small animals with wheat oil to make them stronger and hold up.



 



p154v_5

Strawberries 

The leaves are cast separately and then rejoined with solder.  And because the strawberry fruit is cast solid, and because of this it is heavy, and the tin stem is slender, it will not be able to sustain weight without breaking quickly. One makes the stems with latten thread and then solder them back onto the fruit.

155r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f315.item.r=

p155r_a1Moulding a rose

Because of the little branches of the rose bush, which are around the flower, are sometimes very spread out, they would demand too big of a mold. We make and cast them separately, the rose and the rosebuds separately as well.  And then one brings them together, soldering the little branches and leaves of the rose bush to the stem of the rose, on which you will have purposefully left bits of the small branches.  Put your petal or rose as low as you can in your mould, because sand will always bring it up or raise it.  You can also mould several petals together, arranged one on top of the other, separating them some thread.  And for the look of the rose you can give a thin layer of melted butter on the back of the petals, but only on the outside petals, not the inside petals, to stiffen them and give them the strength to withstand, so that the wet sand does not stretch or spread them out more than necessary.  You can also mold well the leaves of a rosebush, strawberry plant and similar things, that are flat and can be flattened without being spoiled. For two castings, to open your mould, when it has been reheated and then clean the ashes out, make some vents, and [you will be able to do] several casts. This is the easiest way and you can also do the other.  And with little veins of wax that has been adapted and joined from leaf to leaf, you can make casts. You can even make a little vein of wax from the back of the first petal, which will join up with the main cast.  All of this will facilitate the casting process. The main thing is to let your reheated moulds cool down rather than cleaning them and blowing inside them to make the wax come out, because when the mold is hot, the ash almost attaches itself to it.  But when it is cold it, it detaches and leaves with air draft or when one draw in one's breath through the small opening. 



fig_p155r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5b3lFZ18wbGducEk

left-top



left-middleYou can also give a little thickness at the ends of the stems that are holding up the petals, by lightly oiling them underneath with melted butter, because the petals are big and weigh heavily, and the stem made of lead or tin will not have enough strength [to hold it].

left-bottomI would be of the opinion to mold the rose on its own with a bit of its stem close to its bud, and then to join the rose to a longer one [a stem] made of glazed brass, because the rose bloom is very big and heavy.

bottomMoisten your rose with spirits before placing it in the clay. Do not forget to oil the wax cast. And when you have thrown in your wet sand, blow heavily, until it begins to set.  The rose came out well.  But because the sand was mixed within the petals, soak your work in water for a long time so that when you shake it in the water, the earth comes off.

155v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f316.item.r=

p155v_1Rose

Because the rose bloom is rather wavy, and its petals are all mixed up and arranged in various ways, it will not be beautiful if it is not painted, and you must also consider that its weight cannot supported by the tin stem which is sour and fine.  One moulds the flower of the rose in a separate mould, casting it thickly so that it comes out more easily. Then one cuts the cast at the edges of the stem of the bud, in which you graft and solder a stalk of brass wire to which you also solder the leaves. But because this tin, being so thin, is hard to solder, and may melt some of the leaves and also the cast flowers;  [you should consider] that cast flowers, especially roses, are not beautiful without being painted, so one does not make the effort to solder them, but [instead] one grafts the pieces that you want to join together and glues them with fish glue that has been a little moistened and melted until thick. And so that it takes better, you heat the work in tin lightly and for a long time,  because if it is cold, the glue will not take.  Once your flower is thusly repaired, you follow the joints of the added parts with some esbaucher wax, which is a white wax mixed with much well-ground ceruse, or even better, white lead, melting it and placing it on your work with a small warm bit of iron needle.  In the same way you can repair the little filaments that are in the middle of the rose, or the holes that may appear in some of the petals. Then paint your rose realistically. If you cast your rose in gold or silver, you can also rejoin [parts] and solder its. And in those materials, when you have join something very delicate together with the flower, such as a fly or other similar things, fish glue is excellent, and holds very well, fixing it with a few little needles that act as nails. The leaves and buds can be cast in two molds that can be opened once they have been reheated, but not before.  Then these things join up [with the flower].

156r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f317.item.r=

p156r_1Quickly molding and reducing a relief to a hollow [mold]

Make an impression in colored wax of the relief of your medal. And you will get a hollow mold, in which you can cast en noyau a relief in sand. In this, you will cast your hollow in lead or tin. In this, you you will cast your wax relief. And then on this wax, you will make your hollow moule en noyau, in order to cast in it the relief in gold or silver or any other metal you would like.  But to make this process go faster, if you are in a hurry, make the first impression and the first hollow out of the inside portion of the bread loaf, prepared as you know, and which will cast neatly.  And inside this, cast in the melted wax which will give you a nice relief on which you can make your noyau.

 

p156r_2Work of gold, very light and hollow

Cast a lizard or any medal you would like in silver, of low quality, then gild it lightly and once the first gilding is done and dried up in the fire, burnish it, brush it with a wirebrush.  Apply another layer of light gilding, repeating the whole process. Do this three or four times or even more depending on how thick you want your gold to be.  Then, in the most discrete place you can find, make a small opening, and submerge your entire work in some good aqua fortis, which will penetrate into the silver through the opening and will corrode the silver without damaging the gold.  In this way, you will have a lizard that is hollow until the tip of its nails or any type of work that is so light that when you blow into it, it moves.  But be advised not to apply a thick layer of amalgamated gold in one go, or apply layers that are too thin each time, because this will block the finer details, but if you proceed as I have said, [i.e.] lightly and in many goes, and cleaning it well, then you will be fine.

left-middleIf you want the aqua fortis to corrode well, you must cast in low quality silver.

 

p156r_3Chiseling

Lead is so fat and soft that one cannot hammer it harshly, one should have a light touch. Other big metals are easier to work with.  With a graver called an onglete, you make and retool the finest of details.  With the ordinary graver, you make the larger ones, and with the chaple, you can remove the bits that have run, and with the […] soften […] some lines you flatten or raise the lines.

156v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f318.item.r=

p156v_1Moulding a fly

Take the fattest flies, that go to pantries, which are not hairy, if at all possible. If they are hairy, oil lightly their fur and their unmanageable hairs with olive oil to make them lie flat.  Take them also and use them as quickly as you can after they have died, because it you leave them to dry out, their legs will break when you want to stretch them. You must also, to get a better cast, arrange them on some kind of leaf or other similar thing.  This will help to cast their little legs, that are so fragile that unaided, they will not cast easily.  They can be arranged on a sage leaf or something similar.  They cast well in gold or silver but one usually the legs and wings separately and then join them [to the main body.] I have cast one on a bouquet of sage that had seven or eight leaves. And to arrange it, I affixed the legs on the largest leaf with a bit of melted wax and joined them with the pointed tip of a hot iron wire.  And to make sure that the wings will [eventually] join more easily [to the body], I applied on the underside some melted butter with a small brush. And with same pointed end of a warm iron wire I applied wheatgerm oil on the legs and feet.  To tame and bed the downy hair that it has I also apply a bit of olive oil. 

I do not let wheatgerm oil dry out a lot because it is very thick and has body, and the spirits cannot penetrate it. 

 For applications, tallow is too harsh, pork fat is too soft, and but is excellent because it is rather dry and curdles and instantly melts and is firmer.  Be advised that the legs and feet are well set on the leaf, and not go beyond the leaf, because the whatever exceeds the leaf will not cast as well, even if cast in silver, because these parts are so fine that they will not cast. And truthfully, feet set on a leaf, cast well, but those set from leaf to leaf which remain iffy did not come out well in tin.  The rest of the fly was cast, and likewise the sage bouquet which cast very beautifully.  

left-topYou could also cast them well in gold or silver without the feet, and without attaching to a flower by casting it underneath the belly and then joining the feet with soldering. And if you need to, cast the wings in the same metal and it could be enameled if you fortify the wings and feet as previously said.

left-topIf you sage leaf or your branch needs to be repaired, do as I have said underneath. And then paint in a realistic way.

 

fig_p156v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5VjFPeWlJc05CbDQ



left-topHaving been cast in gold, one enamels the wings with window glass from Lorraine, which is and  transparent.

left-middleIt is necessary to cast the fly from the ass with some melted wax, fitted by an iron tip, as you know, to which the fly attaches itself, and then the wax, as it melts, serves as a cast for the fly.



+



left-bottomIf it happens that you have some defects with your fly's wings, hamer some very fine tin, or gold or silver, if you cast it, and shape with scissors the amount you need for your wings. And then apply it with tweezers and glue it with fish glue, applied like it is shown underneath.  And before doing thing this heat your work lightly so that its coldness does not repel the glue, which will dry quickly, heating it from afar.  Then cover lightly the joints of whatever you've attached to the cast with some esbaucher wax, which is a white wax that is mixed with a lot of ceruse or white lead, melting it with and warm iron tip. You will also cut little bits of harpsicord string and will glue them with the aforementioned glue when they are dry. That is the say, the feet, having been reworked thusly, you will make them bigger with this same melted wax so that they are equal in proportion [with the rest].

157r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f319.item.r=

p157r_1The mode in which goldsmiths mold hollow molds



They mold their animal, or another solid work that they have already made or rough-hewn in wax and cast in lead, in two cuttlefish bones. When it is good and impressed in the two cuttlefish bones, they put a piece of paper between the two bones &amp; join the bones and cast. The work comes in parts by halves. And then with a chisel they dig into the two half castings of gold or silver as subtly as they like, and then they solder or braze them.

 

p157r_2Bright red



Some goldsmiths try it out on finely beaten gold that is well burnished with a chisel. But it is better to try it out on a gold ingot, and to test it as well on a work or [illeg.] your materials fantastic, since if they look good &amp; extraordinary on a big work, they will show excellently on a common work.

p157r_3Flies 

They mold better on a single leaf than on a bouquet or a flower or the branch of an herb, since the single leaf is molded in two halves that being reheated can be opened up and cleaned well, &amp; the cast will be better. In picking up the fly, take heed that you do not break its legs or let it dry out too much, because then the legs will fall off. And if this happens to you, glue the same legs back on with fish glue and wax, or adapt the hairs of a pig or the cords of a spinet. Fix the leaf on a flat piece of clay with two pins, and the fly with one pin in the middle of its body &amp; the feet with wax.

 

p157r_4Cleaning and degreasing your cast tin works, and others

Make some lye passed through scrupulously with good ashes, and it should be new &amp; without any fat; boil your molded work in it. And the tallow and fat will leave.

p157r_5Arranging an herb or flower to cast



Always put the front side of the thing on the upper side because it will come out better and neater than the lower side. Make the casting large &amp; prepare the supraplus, which is the mass, after the founders of large castings, even for silver, which needs a very hot mold &amp; is cast very hot. Very fine thing must be cast very hot.

left-bottom

When you know that the stem of a flower burned in a mold that will not open at all is totally reduced to ashes, this is the sign that everything else is well-burned.

157v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f320.image



p157v_1

Ashes in the moulds

You must let the mold cool down rather than blow into it to try to get the ashes out.  Because when the mold is hot, the ashes stick to it, and when it cold, they separate from it more easily, and will exit by blowing with le vent a vapeur.



p157v_2

Moulding a bird

You must give it its pose. And to do so, place it on its side on a clay base and hide it in the aforesaid clay base and sink half the aforesaid bird in it, so that it is only showing one leg and foot, then you will apply butter to keep the feathers down and then apply some spirits.  Then cast it.  And having taken hold, clean and uncover what needs to be uncovered.  Because the feet are made of bones which are hard to burn, and which will not be able to be cleaned neither with quicksilver, nor by any other means, if the mold does not open, uncover the bottom of the foot and the toe, or the nail of the claw, and mold it witha separate piece.  Make a second cooking and open your mold and clean the bones.  Feet generally remain too weak to support the a heavy bird.  Because of this one adapts an iron thread in the foot mold which goes through the body before you cast.  In this way they are reinforced.  Some mold the wings in a frame.  Some mold the head and the aforesaid wings separately en noyau, then reattach and repair them to start shaping the bird, which will firstly have a rigid shape and support the tempered sand.

 

left-middleThey are skinned and filled with cotton cloth.  And for the best result, you must prepare it in the way that leather-workers do, so that they do not lose their comely feathers.  The preparation is made of alum and flour paste.





p157v_3

Po{ur} f{air}e h{…} vin f{…}rs [?]

Prenez un chausson du pied droid t qui ait este porte et le faictes

tremper en eau et de leau q{u}i en sortira la f{air}e boyre au mesme

ou autre et v{er}rez merveilles

