144r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f293.image



p144r_1

Turtles



Turtles are much more beautiful and easier to mould than tortoises, being that they are flatter and have a longer head and tail, and straighter legs and release better than tortoises, who are scraggly, wrinkled, and deeply entrenched in their shells.  They tortoises also have a rounder top shell which is however narrower on the sides than in the middle, which means that the top shell cannot be nicely molded in one go, like those top shells of turtles.  Thus you will mould the top shell into two pieces, and the lower shell into  two, three, or four pieces according to their appropriateness. If you want to release your turtle from the mold without burning it, you must mold it in several pieces.  But if you want to burn what is inside, you can mold your top shell in one piece. So to get started, once you have completely killed it in vinegar and urine, as we know, leave it to fully dry out.  And clean it well with a cloth.  Then take your clay base place it on it, and scrape the base a bit so that the undershell fixes in. Having nevertheless previously arranged the head with a strong needle, as you do with other animals, holding it high by means of a bit of fresh clay that you will work with from beneath. Stretch the aforesaid head and legs with your little pincers. Once the head is in place, dextrously put a grain of yellow millet into each eye with the pincers, because as soon as they die, the eyes pop out and rot. You can do the same for any other animal with a large amaranth seed, a small one, or a grain of rapeseed. This done, you will arrange the legs, securing them with little iron needles.  And then plug with clay the holes all the empty spaces around the turtle, that is to say, what is in between the two shells, so that the sand does not hinder the releasing of it.  And because the legs must be lower than the bottom shell, make a little dimple in your clay base to accommodate them. Your turtle

left-top

When they are the well tender and mortifiees &amp; left aside, in two or three days you will be able to bend and manipulate them better.



fig_p144r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5emg1MXZLREtSRk0

left-middle



left-bottom

animal eyes of my own invention



fig_p144r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5ZkN6Y3ZTM1pKRG8

left-bottom





144v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f294.image





p144r_1

having been thusly arranged and well cleaned with brushes, put the circle of clay around the base. Then, with a roll of clay placed on the middle of the back of the turtle, as you can see, and at the widest place, divide your mold. Next, oil with your oiling brush half the half of the shell you want to mold. If you sand is a bit thick, temper your sand with warm water, so that without burning yourself you can put your finger in it without burning it. And before casting it, rub the shell with spirits. And then cast your sand and let it take hold.  And note that all things that have shells, or that are hard, or do not yield as snakes and lizards do, must be oiled to come out cleanly. The things that yield do not need this. Warm water means that the tempered sand sits better on the oil, which otherwise would not work.  With the half turtle having been thusly molded, separate it with its mold from its clay base, which you will put aside to use when needed. Then clean your half-mold, join it and flatten it like for the others. But because there will be the roll of clay, the half mold will have more than just half the turtle in it, cut and crop cleanly the excess clay and clean everything well with the brushes.  Then at the top of the edge of the mold on the side where it is cut, at the halfway mark, make two notches as you have done with other molds. And flip the turtle on its base, as it was, and secure the two legs that are not molded with iron pins and fill the empty areas around it, up to the edge of the top shell with some clay. Then place the circle around it and place a roll of clay on the first mold, a bit above the notches. And having oiled the first half-mold and its notches and the shell of the turtle, and having also sprinkled it with spirits, warm your water, temper your sand with a bit of salt water, ammoniac, and the aforesaid hot water, make your cast. Having taken hold, keep the sides of the two molds neatly together, and for each side secure the joints, which are not prone to do so naturally, with two clamps, so that when you uncover the bottom of the turtle the top joint does not open. Then open the side with the belly and the throat, in the same manner that you would open a crayfish, which is the hardest animal to mold of all animals that are molded in two parts.



fig_p144v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5ZGhySWFITlRSaG8

left-top





fig_p144v_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5SlhGM2FYLUUteXc

left-middle



left-bottomYou can also mold your turtle in one piece for each side, but you will need to burn it.  And then to make the hollow, the recooked mold cannot be well-oiled because it absorbs the oil.



left-bottom+

If there is crocum in your sand, the joints of the molds will not join well together.

bottom

Turn to the second leaf.
