102r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f209.image



p102r_1

Provisions for the work of Colchos

7 limbecks of glasse

2 lbs. of ☿

One measure of coarse salt

6 unleaded earthenware vessel

2 large unleaded pots for calcinating

2 alembics to distill vinegar

4 pots of good vinegar

3 or 4 lamps

2 lbs. of cotton

One pair of scissors





p102r_2

For the furnace

A chest with a ten inch wide square stone, and of a one-foot thickness, pierced in the middle

2 boxes or two earthenware pots with a lid

2 small pipes of white iron to evacuate the smoke of the furnace

Turnipseed oil for the lamps to heat the furnace

A fire-steel





p102r_3

Royal cement

One pound and a half of vitriol

As much saltpeter

As much rock alum





p102r_4

Glass vessel

The glass vessel must be either pear-shaped or round pyramid-shaped, of  the same thickness as the small back of a knife, round on the bottom without folding over on itself, like flasks, its opening of such a size that a Dutch feather can just about get in, with a lip at the end, in this way of the height of seven fingers' width.



fig_p102r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5MVhNYTRzOXJzR2M

bottom





102v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f210.image



p102v_1

Painting on crystal or glass

They paint without any traces of oil, except for faces where they outline the nose and the mouth in very fine black work. Then they make strokes and highlight them in white, and then they apply a coat of flesh-tinted color.  As for the background, they do it in natural azur from Acre to make it more beautiful, or lacquer for a quickly-done red, or for a finer red, dragon's blood. But it is necessary to apply it little by little so that it is smooth and of one color, and in the same way for other colors. Then they apply underneath it, a leaf of topaz, gold or silver.





p102v_2

Infusion of anthos or rosemary

It is better to cook the flower in August and more suited to oil-making. Take as much as you want. Then put it into a bottle very well corked, and leave them to wilt in the shade for a day. Then add the first substance of wine and leave to settle three or four days; and express it all in another vessel and into this very same substance of wine, add seven or eight infusions made out of new flowers. Then leave the latest infusion in the sun for a month. Then distill it through a still. Then mix two ounces of this water with two or three spoons of white wine; but this is for the elderly. Paul the Third used it.





p102v_2

Casting

Tin casts better when it is thin and delicate, than when it is thick, because when it is thick it contracts in high heat. So if you want to mold a thick piece in tin, mold it only one one side, and if it is possible, make it hollow on the other side. In this way your piece will be neater. And then you can solder two half pieces together. But if you have no choice but to mold it thick, make the shape of it and mold force abreuvouers around the figure in this way.



fig_p102v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5SjZwV0ZHdW93ZEk





103r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f211.item



p103r_1

Excellent burn relief

Heat linseed oil on a light fire, without letting it boil and simmer. But when it is hot put a quarter part(of the quantity of the linseed oil) of the newest wax you can find. Once it has melted, let it cool and when it begins to curdle, stir it continuously with a new wooden spatula for the length of time it takes to say 9 pater nosters, and while you say them, wash this composition with holy water, always stirring. Having said the first of 9 pater nosters, pour the first water out and add more, then wash and stir the composition for the time it takes to say 8 pater nosters. In the interval it takes to say 3 of the 7 pater nosters, and continuing thusly, add more water, as above, until there is only one last new pater noster left.Then you will have a soft white ointment, with which you will apply to the burn for 9 days. But don't apply any more, you must let the flesh grow over. Dress it twice a day and each time you wash your face with water, and mix it together a bit tepidly, without rubbing. But press it with wet linen, and wipe it similarly with fine linen, and apply the ointment. On which you can put binder's string. This will regrow your hair and prevent a scar from forming. A powder maker who was completely burnt but had no sign of burns taught it to me.





p103r_2

Against dog's gall.

The English, who fawn over their dogs owing to the care they take of their livestock, have healers for them the dogs who hold this particular office, and who melt pitch in water and, leaving it wet, rub the dogs with this water or with water sublimate.

103v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f212.image



p103v_1

Enema



In order for the pipe to not hurt children at all, or those with swollen or protruding hemorrhoidal veins, one covers the pipe with a parcel of chicken entrail and fold it over the end, and in this way, one gives the enema.



 



p103v_2

Casting



Tin recoils if thick, therefore it is better to cast it thin and from one piece, to make two and then solder them together, if necessary. One makes use of a strong piece of taffeta to sieve the fine sand with which one first covers the medal, which is of the thickness of a teston.



 



p103v_3

To make colors fluid



Mix some vinegar with a bit of bile, put it into a glass bottle, and if you want to preserve it for a long time, add some salt and mix some of this with your colors which will make them flow.



 



p103v_4

Earwax



If you take enough with the tip of an ear picker and you sieve it with foam of urine, which often forms in the urine of  those who have a headache, all the foam will dissipate.





p103v_5

Enamels



To well recognize their difference and their true color by candlelight, it is necessary to put the candle behind a crystal mirror, or a glass globe or jar full of water, because this light is like sunlight.

104r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f213.image

p104r_a1Corroding and dissolving absolutely pure gold

Put it  regular salt with aqua fortis into a violl. Let it rest for two hours, without heating it. Put [in this mixture] tenuous gold, and draw it out as if it had been separated from silver. 

 

p104r_a2Engraving on iron

One ℥ of verdigris and 2 ℥ of coarse salt and a bit of sublimate, or crush some ocher with linseed oil, and use it to cover the blade or the very neat and polished iron. And let it dry on the fire or in the sun. Then, to engrave and make it beautiful, take a small coin's worth of verdigris twice that quantity of coarse salt and about four grains of ammoniac, and six grains of sublimate, and the water must not be hot.

 

p104r_a3Good mixture to color gold

Sulphur and small gravel as much of one as of the other, and the third part of this quantity of salt, and as much turmeric as sulphur.

 

p104r_a4How to silver plate copper and latten

Mold the silver as the gold, and put it in the oven in order to get a good gilt pot. And do not let it heat, otherwise the silver would tarnish. Once it will be well spread, make it boil in walnut oil, and then heat it a bit, and put it [into the water the silversmiths use to bleach their works].

 

p104r_a5Enameling a carnelian

Soak some wheat flour in white wine, and slop and cover the whole carnelian. Then cook the violet again, then soak it into white wine for one or two hours, then rub it and leave the part you want to keep on it, then lay on some more on top again.

104v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f214.image

p104v_a1Against dogs' mange

For normal-sized dogs, take half an ℥ of stavesacre, and one ℥ for big dogs, as fine powder beaten with two egg whites and one quarteron of oil. They must drink the beverage on an empty stomach, after keeping them locked without any food. Approved.

p104v_a2For casting

If you've got a big piece which does not allow an easy stripping of casting, mold it with some wax, either on the hollow side or in relief, because it is soft and hollow and so can easily be separated from the piece without leaving anything. But be sure that the melted wax is neither too hot nor too cold. Some people use for molding some wax warmed in boiled water, but while pressing the mold it bends and becomes unusable. Once you have made your wax cavity, you can cast in some very soft and clear clay, and let it dry. Then, upon it you will make a lead or tin cavity, in which what you will make will easily be stripped.

 p104v_a3Goldsmith

Know what it is to work on spangled garments, it is small pieces of pure silver and of silver-gilt with which one makes the archers' coats.

p104v_a4Spinet playing by itself



fig_p104v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5cWFSaUU5a2R6N2s

left-bottom



Make an axle surrounded with wheels pierced all around in their thickness and attach feathers as for a cittern or a spinet and arrange them according to the song you want it to play, leaving a suitable distance. And, turning the axle either by yourself or by a clock spring, your invention will effect itself.



 105r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f215.image



p105r_1

Turtles

Males have shells that turn down at the end near their tails, and their underbelly shells have lined marks along the bottom from their tails to their head.  And the females have neither the turned down shell near the tail nor the marks.





p105r_2

Drying colors

Soot black and others will not dry in oil unless you add verdigris.





p105r_3

Painting

 Colors that have been applied twice are  more gritty by themselves, unless they have a binding agent. Otherwise, paint on wood; otherwise, on canvas; otherwise on walls.





p105r_4

Gardening

To graft, it is necessary to take the new growth that was produced within the year by the tree you wish to graft.  And cut off a branch in which you can see that beside the place where the leaves join the stem, there are little buttons we call buds, the initial stages of a sprout.  With dexterity you must, with a very sharp pen-knife, cut in the shape of a graft a small bit of the skin of the tree, which contains a bud or a sprout with the leaf, as you can see in B.   Then on the tender wood, which is full of sap, and on which you wish to graft, cut quickly two lines as you can see , then add in the middle a slit thusly 



fig_p105r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5T1FZYTdOT1U4Qzg



.  Then with the point of your pen-knife separate the bark from the tree, and open it from the slit in the middle, and having neatly lodged your graft so that nothing is sticking out, only the sprout, binding everything well and wrap the whole thing with a bit of linen or soft string.  In this way, there will be nothing uncovered but the leaf, which in three or 4 days will indicate whether the graft has taken hold, by being green.  Keep your graft in this way for seven or eight days.  Then unwrap it, and join it to the bark, keeping the sprout itself straight, and then rewrap the whole thing gently, but not as strongly as before.  And if there is any growth, leave it some room to grow and then three or four times



fig_p105r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5UWpzdGVweGVvQTg

left-bottom





105v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f216.image





p105r_4

Then, when the graft has taken hold, cut the top of the tree, which is above your tree, three or four fingers above the graft for the first time.  Then, closer so that it serves. But be advised that when you do your initial grafting there should be no small hole at the back of your sprout, because this means that root is broken and your graft will never take.  Therefore make sure the back is in tact.  This type of grafting can be done from mid-May onwards, because the trees have budded and made new growth, until the beginning of August when the trees are full of sap.  Almond trees which are naturally drier lose their sap earlier.  Those who want to graft onto them the almond trees mericotons, apricots and nut-tree grafts, which are the best, should do so usually in January.  Nut trees, such as perches mericotons should be grafted en fente.  It is said that trees graft by the shield-graft method take longer to bear fruit.





p105v_1

Gardening

It's not very strange to cultivate in your garden some arnols, because when your soup or broth goes cold, you get worms.





p105v_2

fountain

Recooked plaster runs when mixed with water, which you will see in the next recipe about wet molds.  When put on the joints of the fountain conduits, it resists as much as any stucco.





p105v_3

Catching nightingales

See the 15th folio 

after this.

In order to catch them, you must observe them in real life, the food that they favor and their mating season.  The nightingale, as long as he is singing, marks his own territory.  Therefore approach him by pretending to look for something on the ground.  Take some worms from old flour or from beneath what you are kneading or from mills, which nightingales love, and put some on your hat, fastened with a pin or in any other way, so that it can wiggle.  And five or six steps away from the hedge where it is singing, dig a hole, and place some worms in it, as well as your device made out of little criss-crossed sticks.  As soon as you leave it will be anxious to go and see what you have done.  And seeing worms it will enter.

left-bottomSome people sell nightingales on trees.

left-bottomIt is easier to catch nightingales in the cool of the morning or evening, near fountains or shaded areas.





p105v_4

Nightingale 

The iron wire used for its cage must be the thickest possible, so that should it try to leave, it will not hurt itself.  At the beginning of its captivity cover its cage in fabric. The first day you will have to forcibly feed it, moving it from its cage in your hand and opening its beak and with a small wooden needle, place its food in its throat and make it swallow. And continue to do so until it is no longer willful.  You must do this to keep it alive, because should it become thin or lose weight it will die.





p105v_5

Nightingale 

 

It will need a cage made in the shape of a barn, like the ones for larks, lined with green fabric, because it feels the cold. And to get it to eat when it is first put in the cage, you must give it ants mixed with earth in the bottom of the cage to get it used to pecking, and you can give it minced sheep's heart, and sometimes eggs, and sometimes mealworm.106r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f217.image

p106r_a1To cast

Asphalt from Germany is the most excellent sand you can find for molding in a box frame, because it is fitting for silver &amp; for gold. And the more you use it and the older it is, the better it is. With it, one molds very slender &amp; subtle things.

p106r_a2Making gold run for casting

Because gold cools down very quickly, you have to give it a mixture when it is well melted that will keep the heat. Sublimate softens it nicely. But, since it vanishes into smoke, it won't aid you for very long. Therefore mix this mixture into it when you want to cast it: of sal ammoniac, the best verdigris that you can find, a bit of borax and some saltpeter. And this, held over the heat, will become neat. The saltpeter makes it clear and heats it. But the key thing in this mixture is the verdigris, which has to be good. This mixture softens your gold so much that it becomes as tractable as lead, even if it is good gold.

For sand for molding flowers and leaves &amp; other delicate things, mix in raw plaster, crushed brick and stone alum.

To moisten sand, spirits are excellent because it makes sand fine and leaves in a vapor when you reheat your box frame.

Dilute sal ammoniac is very good, is excellent for moistening sand, but for lots of water you only need a little bit of sal ammoniac.

A raw lump of metal, if you don't have crocum ferri, is good for gold.

The snakes and the lizards you wish to mold should not be kept for a long time, because if they are alive, they will waste away, and if they are dead, they will decay.

Plaster of Paris is as hard as stone and very good. When you want to choose some for your sand, take the rawest and the hardest that is possible for you &amp; that does not make any powder. Transparent [plaster] and that which makes powder in giving way is that which is not good for this work. A sign of that which is near perfect is that it is hard &amp; makes shining grains that look almost like sugar. Finally, to mix it into the sand to cast gold, it has to be put in the fire twice, &amp; reheated twice.

left-top+ When gold is really pure, it is so dry that it can just barely endure a hammer. But this mixture softens it like lead.

106v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f218.image

p106v_a1Casting in gold

To cast in gold, crocum ferri is necessary, and more stone alum than in the following mixture. The stone alum mixture cannot spoil anything. The mold must be red &amp; close it immediately with iron presses.

Shells of crabs &amp; [shells of] crayfish are troublesome to burn &amp; have their own proper way of being molded.

When molding rats and birds, the feet, being burned, are difficult to recover, because they are small and slender. The body is recovered more easily from the mold. The feet are cast in many pieces.

p106v_a2Tiles

right-middlethose of houses that are outdoors, ones [that are] a bit sandy seem to hold better in fire

Tiles with which one covers houses, the hardest and surest and recleaned of stones &amp; large gravel, are taken to mix in with the sand for molding. But, rather, it is necessary to reheat them just until they have been quite red for one or two hours, and crush them and pass them finely through a sieve.

Little turtles just out of the egg are really delightful to mold.

---------

Plaster]-->

middleIf the plaster is mixed with some dust or is not the hard kind, [...] in the fire and make [...]

The hardest plaster, as was said, is the best, being taken thusly totally raw from stones of this kind. Crush it as finely as possible and pass it through the most fine sieve or sleeve that you can. Having been made fine in this way, put a good amount in a cauldron or frying pan over an open flame. &amp; as it starts to heat up, stir it continuously. And heavy and lumpy though it is, it will become so light and so tractable that it will appear to you not to have any resistance to the said stirring, as though it were of water. Continue to keep stirring it continuously until it returns once again to being heavy and thick. And now this is the sign that it is cooked, but do not reheat it at all such that your stone alum brick be reheated &amp; that clay circles form. Because this must be the last reheating, and when everything else is ready, because the less that the plaster remains reheated &amp; the more suddenly it is put into the work, the better, because it takes rather better. It is not permitted to reheat it except when you want to mold. And to reheat it, put it, in fine, totally raw powder, in a cauldron on a clear flame &amp; do not give it too much [heat] in one go nor too fierce. Stir continuously with a long stick, turning around the cauldron to avoid the vapor. And in the middle, in the form of a figure 8 at the beginning, you will find it heavy [and] clayey because it is full of moisture, [and] when it heats up, it will start to throw off [the moisture] in some bubbles on the edges of the cauldron. And finally it will become liquid &amp; mealy and like bran and start boiling in the middle. Continue to stir continuously until you recognize that it has once again become heavy ʘʘ

Stone alum is that which binds well to sand.

Crocum ferri is fit for gold. It is this which, mixed into sand, breaks it up again &amp; keeps it hot.

---------

left-topPlaster

When you have it in stone form, choose the hardest pieces and those which do not easily break into small pieces with your nail, and clean it well of powder &amp; filth rather than crushing them with it.

left-middlePlaster alone does not sustain [...] but breaks up into lumps.





Keep reheated plaster, as is said here, one or two months well compacted in a dry place, if it's not the rainy season but rather fresh out it is more excellent for exquisite work.



left-middleIt must maintain its fire and turn red like lit charcoal.

107r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f219.image









fig_p107r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5RFFFT3hSbnlGaVU



 as heavy as before, and it should be like a paste not very thick, it must not be as easy to stir as a liquid. This state shows you that it is cooked enough. It must boil in the middle, and all around you must have a thick mixture. If you reheat it too much your mixture would be short of body, because if it becomes red the mixture will lose its strength and it will spoil the sand. Let it cool before mixing it to any other sand. […]

p107r_a1Catching lizards and snakes

Take a stick, pin a net with a slipknot to the top. Whistle, and move the net nearer to the head of the lizard, and pull when it put it's head inside the net. It is more difficult to take a lizard with your hands than a snake, because lizards bite without letting go, and bite as strong as pincers.

You can take snakes with your hand, but cover your handle with a woollen cloth, because the teeth of the snake could go through a common cloth. You can recognize dangerous snakes by their blue eyes. They do not bite into water, as it is known by crayfish catchers.

The sand mixture is made of two thirds of ground plaster, reheated as it is said before, and of one part of reddened tiles which are finely ground afterwards. Use also stone alum, half of the quantity of the tiles. Use two full pots of plaster, one pot of tile and half a pot of stone alum. Do not use too much stone alum because that binds the sand, and allow sand to withstand fire without cracking or breaking. Without it [stone alum] sand would not withstand fire, you can use it for all kind of metal, but for gold add a bigger quantity of stone alum, add also crocum ferri, because they [these filings] attract gold.

All the sands you will cast, must withstand fire very well, it must withstand high temperature without spoiling anything.

It is difficult to grind stone alum, and it cannot be sieved, you must grind it on a marble slab. The white [stone alum] powder the apothecaries sell is good, it is easy to crush it into a mortar, use the pestle slowly, that way you will make it [the stone alum] very fine.

Crocum ferri must be heated into a glassworker's furnace during four days.

107v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f220.image

 





Molds for fine things, like wormwood or something similar, can only be used once, dip the molds into water before breaking them. Things twice reheated are dissolve easily into water. If you don't do that your work will be hard to be stripped of the mold without being spoiled.

Good stone alum is white and as shiny as white silk, this stone alum is made of long pieces, as long as a finger, and is very fragile and woolly and fluffy. Stone alum made of stone is harder and not so good. The best quality can be found in France near Ronan. For our sand, stone alum must be crushed into a mortar, and must be ground on the marble again. Don't even think about sieving it because this matter is fat and woolly, it wouldn't pass through any sieve because of the very fine and soft filaments. These filaments give the sand a much greater binding effect than natural wool or even the filler the foundry owner uses for big works, because natural wool and filler burn and stone feather alum resists fire.

 

When you cast surround the sand of your mold with very beaten greasy earth. Make a circle around your mold with this earth.

Archanum omnibus fere reconditum est in re fusoria,

v{idelicet} res exprimenda formis, sive herba sit sive animal

ut lucerta, inmergatur primum in vini spiritum

aprime rectificatum, deinde pulvere composito aspergatur

sive illinatur (si pulvis in formam pultis redactus sit, ut

assolet)

  

When you want to mold something hollow, the core must be made of the same matter, if the snake or the animal is curved or folded you must do your core in several pieces.

 

Try [to see] if distilled vinegar is good for eating away, it will dissolve the animal inside the hollow mold.

 

left-topIf you know that your plaster cannot endure fire without breaking, do not take the recipe of the mixture literally, sometimes you can add less stone alum than above. Because stone alum soften molds. Once reheated do not grind the stone alum again, leave it ground as the apothecaries did. It will not prevent the cast from being neat, and will give more binder to your cast. When the mold holds the color of the brick and is reddened then it will be harder.

108r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f221.image





To hold the cores, some [people] use wire made of the same metal as that to be cast because it boils down and is made similarly, but when it is melted or pliant the core varies. Other [people] find it serves them better to use sharpened iron wire about the borders because it holds more firmly, and having fine points it does not rise up any more than the point of a needle and one can apply gold or silver on this rather than putting it in works [where] one makes a hole in the work with a small chisel.

 

Spirits prevent the sand from bubbling and do not make little holes on the borders of the mold if the thing to be molded is very damp, the holes and farts and bubbling does not make it in the place of the mold which is thick but at the borders which are more delicate.

 

One casts ordinary silver of the sort goldsmiths coarsely work, which is made with mediocre alloys. And when one casts with solder, it runs even better.

 

Spalt is a whitish stone which can be found in Germany, mainly in Augsburg from which can be made the most excellent sand that can be found for [casting] lead, tin, copper, silver and gold. And the more it is used, the better it is. It is clean for casting flat things in a frame. For rounded things, it is not as attractive [because it] does not hold in the fire as the aforementioned [things] composed of plaster.

 

The snippings of [a] large [piece of] greasy leather are good to cast in melted copper and brass because they clean it and take away from it all its filth. 

 

p108r_a1Spalt

 

Spalt is white like cooked plaster and one can find it in mounds and stones made in long stairs and long veins. It is very soft such that with a fingernail and it makes a powder like that of our chalk from Champagne. And because everything which is provided from the earth is mixed with some other substance, to purify it [the spalt], one boils it with somewhat large gemstones then tempers it with essence of sal ammoniac. One puts [a lump of it] the size of a walnut in a large bottle of water and

108v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f222.image

 





that way one tempers it &amp; reducing it into small balls, [one] purges it of impurities [by] then putting it on to cook cleanly in a vessel of earth[enware] in a furnace like those in which pots [are made] and one leaves it there to the point at which pots would be fired. After one tempers it more with essence of sal ammoniac &amp; boiling it very strongly and emptying the murky water &amp; putting it in a separate vessel straight after put back the same water over it &amp; one boils &amp; one puts back the murky water again with the other. And one does this therefore  until that which is there has passed away. In this way one purges and purifies and makes it a very fine and malleable [matter]. After one has taken away the water by tilting [it] or with a sponge, one takes the residue and dries it. Then moistening it with the aforementioned water the way one did with the other sand, one uses it in a frame or if it shrinks [this] is a sign that it is not fired enough &amp; needs to be fired more. This one is proper for molding all metal and especially gold and silver and the more it is used the better it is. One should put alum which you have cast of lead or tin separately because it makes gold sour if you cast it there.

 

[p108v_a1Stone alum]

 

Stone alum must be reheated in a pot covered with a tile over a good charcoal fire so that the impurities which might be in it [are] burned with that which does not burn. This is done either in the goldsmith forge surrounded by bricks or in a little oven vented to the fusion fire such that the pot stays red for a quarter of an hour. This is more to purify it than for anything else. It becomes reddish on top and the inside remains white and dries best this way.#

 

left-middle# Once your stone alum is cooled down, crush it in a mortar, then grind it more finely on marble. And this makes it into very fine wooly dust that gives binding to sand without burning like all other things. [This is] a beautiful invention. Crush it on the mortar to being careful to keep the grindings together because the dust flying can get down your collar or on your face which can have very grave consequences. Put a little each time in the mortar to avoid the dust flying. It is best to grind therefore with the pestle trained on the mortar rather than on the marble where it spreads and on the mortar it gathers [the dust] from all sides and renders it very fine and sweet to the touch.

 

[p108v_a2Clay]

 

Clay used to surround molds, should be very fat and malleable, and should not be used for anything else except to make the contour of the molds. Therefore one should only chose that which is very fat and beat it very well and soak it moderately with water and have it in a pit or earthenware pot and make good holes with a stick with which one replenishes it with water to keep it always fresh and soft and ready to use when needed.

109r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f223.image



p109r_1

Working in rough with wax

When the wax is too hard, one mixes in some turpentine or a bit of butter, which renders the wax malleable, and cleaner than tallow, which the Italians mix in, because oftentimes, it is necessary to put the tools into the mouth, tools which are better when made from box wood or antler.





p109r_2

 

Wax for molding

Since the wax is molten, they have some sulphur in a spoon or crucible and pour it in the molten wax. And with the sulphur going to the bottom or staying on top, it stays where it is and mixes only its substance in the wax, and renders it more meltable when warming it, in such a way that having molded it, the wax gently melts in the mold like butter, without leaving any blister or boil.  Also be warned to not give it too much heat.

left-topIf





p109r_3

Molding wax

So that your mold takes hold without repelling any surface on a form or figure in wax, it is necessary to rub the wax with oil and soak your sand in lukewarm water, because cold water repels oil even more and will not make a good layer on the wax.

left-middleRub the oil on very very lightly, use so little that it hardly appears at all. Then rub with some spirits. After soak your sand in lukewarm water so that it does not repel the oil.



p109r_4

Forge bellows

It is better that at the end with the air chamber the bellows be set in some kind of bit of cloven board because they are more secure this way. Afterwards you can lightly secure them from the top.  It is necessary that the nozzles be four fingers above the bottom of the forge.



p109r_5

Molding snakes

When you get them for molding, if it is possible, do not remove their teeth if you [think you might] want to keep them, because having had their teeth removed, it hurts their gums and mouths, and they can no longer eat.  You can keep [the snakes] in a barrel full of bran or even better of earth, in a cool place, or in a glass bottle.  And give them some live frog or other live animal because they do not eat anything that is dead. Also I have noticed that



109v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f224.image





p109r_5

when they want to bite or to eat something, they [snakes] do not go at it head on, but sideways and by sinuous coiling, as do Satan and his henchmen. The snake has a small head, but a very large body; the entryway to sin seems small and inconsequential, but the consequences are great indeed. A snake can abstain from eating for seven or eight days, once he has swallowed a frog, and can swallow three or four frogs, one after the other, and what it has devoured does not rot and is not digested all at once in its stomach, but each part little by little, i.e. the bones and everything. The rest is just as fresh as when the snake ate it, such that when one bothers and torments it, it spits out what it swallowed up, which, in part, is totally digested, with the other part as fresh as if the frog were alive. It can hold a swallowed frog down for two or three hours and spit it out alive.

 p109v_1Toad

If by chance you want to mold this ugly animal and if it should piss in your hand, it will sting your hand and cause it to itch, as if you had been holding nettles. But the very best remedy for this is to put your hand into fresh dirt, and to cover it as if you wanted to bury it. Frogs are not so beautiful when molded because they have shiny skin, and toads have lumpy skin.

left-middleYou can mold the toad hollow, and leaving a notch open on the underbelly, you will make it jump with the twisted cord of the saw. If it is a small, put it on a magnet cut small to the size of the toad, then put it in good vinegar.

right-middleIf it is big, mold hollow, and if you want to mold it with its mouth open, put some cotton therein, and then put some melted wax on the cotton.



p109v_2Killing snakes for molding

Some put a drop of aqua fortis into their mouths, which stupefies them, so that the head and the body look dead. But the head is still alive, and when you stick it with a needle in order to fix it to your mold, it moves and spoils and undoes everything. Therefore, to kill your snake, put it into a bottle filled with good vinegar and some spirits. Do the same with lizards and other similar animals.

left-bottomIf you want to keep them, you can put them in a pipe full of dirt in a garden outdoors, but it is necessary that the pipe be covered with latten wire, because otherwise, the snakes will crawl and climb up quite high.

110r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f225.image

p110r_1Casting

You could cast from already casted things and animals, but it never works as well as from the natural [original] ones, with which you can make four or five molds.

p110r_2Rock and cavern

You need to grind white and yellow marcasites &amp; various kinds of mines. Wash them thoroughly, so the soiled and chalky end will be clean, in order that only the lustrous grain of the mine will be left, from which you will powder your rock previously covered with colle forte, if your cavern is not used as a fountain and touches water. You will thus obtain a nice work.

 

p110r_3Snakes

When they feel trapped, they seldom bite, and cannot really hurt unless they are really big snakes. The most important thing is to avoid being bitten before capturing them. Having put your foot as close as possible from the neck, you holds it as close to the head as possible. That way, it will not bite if it cannot stretch its neck and do a sinuous turn, it will not be able to hurt from a frontal attack, nor will it be able to twist into an S. I have found out that the person who taught me how to mold them was little afraid of snakes. He would catch one and pull it quickly, grabbed it by the neck and, putting it under his shoe, flattened it so it would eject from the behind, which is five or six fingers from the tail, everything that is bad and venomous in the belly. After that, the snake has no strength to bite and, if by chance it still bites and ejects from its behind some garbage, he [the man] would dig in the soil with a knife and bury his hand in the fresh and humid soil which, applied to the infected part of the hand, would  suck all the venom, without doing anything else. It was the same with toad venom, as I have seen experimented.

 

left-middleIn three [days] it is as thin as if he had not eaten. Cast it right after catching it is the best, before it loses weight. You should kill it only a quarter of an hour before you want to cast it.



110v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f226.image



p110r_3

When a snake has eaten something; when twisting it, it will vomit the food. And if, after having eaten something, the snake is pressed underfoot, this troubles the snake a lot and makes it sick. If the snake is wounded, it will not eat voluntarily.

 



p110v_1Mussels

There is nothing better for opening them up than to oil them with olive oil, and nothing else. And afterwards, when you want to separate them, soak them in cold water; that is the secret. And you will see that the oil, although it seems to be imbued, will separate itself from the water as does grease. Mussels become stronger in cold water, and warm water would dissolve them with difficulty, although having been reheated, the mussels are then more handleable and easy to dissolve in the water.



p110v_2

Wheat oil

Is made on a blade of iron reddened in the fire, and the oil turns into drops, which is appropriate to oil the hair of a butterfly or similar thing, because this oil is instantly dry and makes the rest dry out.  It is necessary that the coat or down of any animal that you want to mold be flat, because if left standing up, it will make the sand raise up and form bubbles.

 

left-middle# If you want to mold something delicate, like a pansy, some, to give it a little thickness, more than what is natural, some rub it with butter.  But it is best to oil it with wheat oil because it has no opacity and does not block the smaller features as much, and makes the flower firmer.



p110v_3

A cast of lead or tin

Because you want to cast tin very thinly, if your medal, plant or other thing you want to mold is thin and fine, make sure to include more tin, much more than lead, namely less than the fourth part of lead for three of tin. And moreover, one only puts lead in as an alloy. Contrarily, if you want to mold something strong and thick, put a lot more lead in than tin. And for the one and the other you can put in a little looking-glass tin, but only a very little, with a little resin, when you want to cast.  Since then, when molding with pure new lead, I put in two ounces of pure tin for every pound of lead.  And when molding with pure tin, I put in two ounces of pure lead for every pound of tin. I made some plants and snakes as if they were real.

 

left-bottom

I cast tin when it was nearly red, and the same thing with lead, which however had not remained in the fire for too long, because it becomes brittle and burns up.

111r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f227.image

p111r_a1Reheating molds

Box molds dry out readily, &amp; do not get reheated, because to reheat is properly to turn molds red and inflamed in the fire, and drying out is to let both molds dry, or make them evaporate their humidity, placing them before a fire of flames or one of charcoal. Molds de noyau reheat easily &amp; box molds dry out.

p111r_a2Latten smoke



It is good to reheat molds for casting latten in it, because this yellow chalk, which appears nevertheless to refill the molds, casts very neatly, being of the same nature.

p111r_a3For red copper

When it's melted, it is good to throw in a little fine tin, because this makes it run.

p111r_a4Clay earth

This, wet &amp; well beat &amp; kneaded as you know, is necessary for you to make the contour of your molds. But attend that it not be too soft. But likewise [attend that it be] sort of half dry such that it doesn't attack the hands at all, because otherwise it would attack your work. Always keep it in a damp place, and make some holes in it, and fill them with water, to keep it fresh.

left-middleThe gray [earth] is best which does not cleave at all.

left-middleIt is neater than [illegible] of lead.



fig_p111r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5X085N09VejNheTQ

left-middle



p111r_a5Iron wire

You have to be provisioned with different thicknesses according to the molds that you want to make, some large like packthread from [illegible] &amp; some thin, like the fat cords of a spinet, for small works. With it reheated, make clamps to close the molds &amp; make points like needles of various lengths according to your need, to fasten the animal to the mold &amp; hold it subject. Needles would not be good for this since your points must be hollow &amp; of the same thickness throughout, except at the point. And then you have to make them as long as you have need. Iron wire is harder than that of latten.

111v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f228.image



p111v_1

sal ammoniac water

It is enough to use two chestnuts' worth of sal ammoniac pulverized in a pot of water, and that the water tastes lightly salted to your tongue, because too much is not good.

p111v_2

Sanguine

To clean the various colors of lead and tin, sanguine is pulverized, and it is rubbed on the molded work with pieces of fabric.

p111v_3

Crab and crayfish



They are among the most difficult to mold, and whoever molds them well will mold many other very subtle things.

p111v_4

Lizards

When one grabs them with two fingers from the sides of the head, at the level of the ears, one makes them open their mouth with the tip of the fingernail, then one grabs the edge of their lower jaw, and then [the edge] of the upper one. He squeezes the fingernail like a pair of pincers, but he cannot go through it, but he squeezes it quite hard; and if he bit the flesh, he would never let go of his hold, and there would be no better remedy than to cut off his head promptly. In the spring, as they have shed their skin, they are better-looking.



left-middle

The small lizards that one catches in the summer, the size of small female lizards, grey on the back and green on the belly, are very appropriate to cast in silver, gold, or other metal, because their scales are rougher than those of female lizards and show better.







p111v_5

Composition of sand

Everything being baked thoroughly as said above, take four 4 molds full of plaster, two 2 of brick, and one of alum de plume. Do not pass through the sieve to mix, because the alum would not go through. Mix it with your hands until neither one nor the other, neither white nor red, may be distinguished from the other. If your plaster is not strong, do not mix in as much alum de plume because it softens molds. Make sure too that your sand is not hot (since it has been baked thoroughly recently) when you will want to mix it with water, because that makes molds too soft and breakable.



 



left-bottom

You may sometimes decrease the quantity of plaster if you do not find it strong enough to resist fire and if it splits, so that the proportion of crushed tiles sustains it, with the alum de plume, which you can also increase so that it creates a better bond.

112r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f229.image

p112r_1To temper the sand

You should have: a large basin full of water to dip the molds into in order to open them, a tankard full of common water, a dish to temper the sand, a small wooden spoon to pick up the mixed sand in the dish.

left-topTo make handles for your large oil brushes, if you do not have large enough feather pipes, take two of them, melt them and join them together.



fig_p112r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5MHphUzNsdW9DQ1U

left-top 



 

p112r_2Decoction of sands

Already said

 

p112r_3Molding en noyau. Mixing of sand

Once you have reheated your sand, that is the plaster, the stone alum and the brick, and once you have finely filtered them through a cloth sieve, # mix them the following way: take four measures of plaster, two measures of bricks, and one measure of stone alum. Mix them all together with the hands, so that one may not discern one [ingredient] from the other. Once your sand is ready, you need to kill the animal that you wish to mold in this way.

left-center# except for the stone alum which should be ground in a mortar.

p112r_4Killing the animal to mold

You must have been careful not to hurt it while capturing it. If you have a stock [of animals] and you wish to keep them for a long time, place it in a glass bottle with bran or in a large barrel half full of damp fresh earth. Give them frogs to eat, live rather than dead, because should you keep them without feeding them, they would wither and become emaciated, and their skin would become saggy and wrinkled. Therefore, the sooner after its capture you mold it, the better it will come out. And kill it in the following manner: place it in a clean bottle or vessel so that [the animal] does not carry any dust; fill [the bottle] with enough good vinegar and urine so as to cover [the animal]. Shake [the bottle] and torment [the animal] inside there until it is dead which should take an hour or half an hour. But if you are in a hurry

left-bottomTo know if [the animal] is quite dead, take it out of the vinegar and take it by the tail. If it moves its tail, do not mold it because it still has feelings, and when pricking [its members], it would remove itself and harm the mold.

left-bottomWater snakes do not bite much.



112v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f230.image



p112r_4

to cast, force feed it your animal some good spirits or mix a bit of spirits with the vinegar. And soon it will be dead without any wounds that would deform it. As for large animals, for which it is necessary to have a lot of spirits, one uses vinegar and urine, but for small ones, spirits only are needed, and it will be done quicker.

When your animal is dead, take it out and clean it very carefully, relieving it of its old skin if it sheds, of its parasites like lizards have, and then apply it.

left-topin a glass, and submerge, continuously holding the head of the animal. Or if it is not very big, put the whole thing in.

left-topBe advised that before it dies, you must open it eyes, by blocking its eyelids with a bit of wax or something else.



p112v_1

Affixing and arranging animals

Having gotten in some fat earth called clay, that should be grey, because that is the best one, or another that will bind well and will be well prepared and beaten, so that it is malleable without being damaging your hands or the work, make a lazagne, or a pancake shape, of this clay equally flattened with a rolling pin, which pastry-makers use so that it is slightly thicker than a poulc.  And on this pancake, affix your animal, making it as life-like as possible and the way in which it is naturally shaped. And firstly, with a good needle, pierce it from underneath, in the middle of the throat, up to the top bone of the head. Then take the needle out and in the hole, put the point of an iron wire, of such a length that it suffices to maintain the head of the animal as high as it must be, and if the skin gets in when you put in the wire, take it out with the edge of your small pincer, and arrange the skin as it was before. Pierce the other end of the wire in the sheet of clay. In this way the head will be held high, which will make it more graceful and proud. Arrange afterwards, the rest of the body, and the legs, and the curling as you think will look best. And so that it is secure and does not move when you put in the sand, secure the legs with little points of iron wire, having already made the first hole with a very sharp needle. Do the same on the body parts that you deem necessary, making sure that the points going through the animal are fixed in the clay sheet, and not so far in front that they jut out beyond the body of the animal by a

left-topTake a needle of fine steel, and which will be the sharpest you can find,  so that with it, when you make your first hole in order to place the wire threads, it will pass through without effort, and take care not to rudely insert the wire or take skin with it.  Then put a thicker wire in the thick bits [of the animal] and the thinner wire in the thinner bits. But take this secret advice and do not plant your pointed wire in one go through the animal and onto the plaster, but having planted it, take it out of the clay earth but not out of the animal, which is afterwards fastened there. One does this because by fastening the point the first time, it pushes in the skin of the serpent and by taking the point out, it replaces the skin in its original state.

left-bottomWhen you reuse the points you have already used, make sure to clean them well of rust, so that they do not take away some skin.

bottomThe main arrangement of your casting is to keep its head very high and have it looking sideways.  For this effect, pierce the head on a solid plank or table, making the wire pass through the bottom of the throat up to the top of the head 



fig_p112v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5c3dzVlNzcUd6MnM







113r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f231.image





p112v_1

a bit so that you can take it out if you need to. And be advised that these needle points must be of the thinnest kind of iron wire, with a length that is suitable to the animal; because the smaller your needle is, the smaller the leftover hole will be. However, you must have different sized ones because there are some needles that go on the body and in places that are thicker, like under the throat, and some needles must be longer and stronger than the ones used on legs and thin places, where the needles must be subtle and thin, almost like the biggest harpsichord strings. And it would be better if they were of iron wire, which is firmer than the one made of latten. And if piece of a tail, a piece of nail or a piece of leg to the body needs to be joined to the body, do not use the needle; it would damage these parts. But apply a bit of wax, as big as a grain of millet, between the body and the end of the tail. Then with a bit of iron wire, flattened and warm, touch the wax and join the two pieces by applying a bit of pressure. In this way, after your animal has been well-placed on the lute-shaped pancake of clay earth, 

fig_p113r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5YkE1Vm1ZMmRoVm8

 

build around it a wall of the same clay 



fig_p113r_3

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5aW1sekxQWGJJY0E

 in this way. And join everything together. And then with a big knife, with which you have cut the clay, take away the extraneous clay surrounding the pancake. And place on a piece at the end of the mold to close it off, as you see in B. Then, with a small curved instrument, mark on the inside of your mold the thickness you wish, which for a common serpent must be two inches thick; so that when you put in your wet sand, you will see when it is thick enough. When all of this is neatly set out, moisten well the shaped body of the animal everywhere, with good spirits, with a brush.  For this is the best-kept secret: because everything that is touched by spirits will come out very neatly and without any small eyes or holes that we call bubbles, which usually come not at the back or in the thick sides of the mold, but on the edges.  And as soon as you have thusly moistened everything with spirits, put in your wet sand without letting the spirits evaporate, which they do quickly.  And soak it thusly.





fig_p113r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5MDEzX0RhXzJGcXc

 and make sure the needle is as long as you need according to how much you want to raise the head, and that both ends are sharp. Having been arranged thusly, affix your serpent on the clay earth, and place the head first and then the rest.





left-middle

If, once you have placed you animal on sheet of clay, you are distracted with other occupations, rub your animal with spirits and under the belly so that it does not stick or attach itself to the clay earth.



fig_p113r_4

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5Qm8wSlJPOWxfZWM





left-bottomIf, when you pierce the belly of your animal, it releases water on the plaster, clean it well with cotton because the sand that was wet will become lumpy. If it is on top of the animal, clean it very carefully and very neatly and touch it and strongly wet it with spirits.





p113r_1

Wetting sand and molding the first cast

Have a porringer of leaded earth of such a size that it can hold the wet sand which will be needed to fill your mold in one go, which is better than in two gos, because if you do not throw the second load of sand in very quickly, there is a risk that while you are preparing it, the first one will take and become solid,



113v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f232.image





113r_1

and this way, while heating it again, the two casts will dissolve. Therefore, have several dishes of various sizes with a pouring beak in order to cast better. In these, pour some regular fountain water and mix into it as much as an egg # can hold of sal ammoniac water, mixed as described. If you want to cast lead or tin - because one would need more for casting gold or silver - having the water in your dish, add the sand and not the other way around [by adding the water to the sand], and adjust it with such attentiveness that, while mixing it vigorously and wetting it quickly with a wooden spoon, it does not become thicker than mustard.  And in such a way cast [i.e., pour] first the clearest part, as is always at the surface, by shaking it a little higher in your mold.  And doing so, since your animal is nearly covered, Once your animal is covered, blow on it very strongly to eliminate the small bubbles from your soaked sand. Then pour immediately the rest which is at the bottom and which is thicker than the upper part, fill your mold to the thickness mark you have made. 

fig_p113v_4

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5bEE5QmFaQWxUYm8

 And while casting do not forget to shake your mold, that way your soaked sand runs and get in through every parts. Also tip your mold up on the side of the head, which is higher than the body. That way the contents of your mold will have the same thickness, and you'll spare sand. This being done with care, your sand will harden within a quarter of an hour. Then peel the clay contour which can be used later. Let it dry a little bit, than separate your mold from the slab of earth, and you can mold properly straight after. Cut away the extra parts with a knife, and make it mandore shaped. You can reuse the clay frame. Scrape away what's on the back of the mold, because this part is the weakest; do not forget to make notches around it, that way the second cast would bind much better 



fig_p113v_5

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5V29QdUxZVmxCUDQ

 and would not move.



left-top

Your half mold, in one shot and one mix is the best.



left-top

#

or two eggs, because there is no danger if there is more. If you cast twice, just add sal ammoniac water into the first pouring.



left-top

Make your mixture as clear as a pureed broth, or starch water, the one women use make their starch. It is not a problem if the mixture is very thin because sand settles in the bottom and water stays on top of it, which we scape as too weak and soft. It will not take long to harden, because burned things dry rapidly.



left-bottom



fig_p113v_3

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dEdzS040X3RjbkU



If you don't fill your mold with soaked sand at one go, do mix your second cast with the top part of the first cast, stir with a spoon, or the stick you had took to soak your sand.

You do not need to add sal ammoniac water if you cast small molds which do not need to be reheated too long. However it is better to add some.

114r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f233.image



p114r_1

Second Casting

When you have well molded the first part of the animal, that is to say the back, the spine, and the entire top part, and when the half-mold where the part is encased is hard enough 

fig_114r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5SWVndzB0aEk5MWs

 turn over the bottom and the sides of the belly, sometimes using a knife for the thicker parts, and then with a pen-knife for the places where the more fragile parts are encased, like legs, tail, and similar things. Because the head is higher, you will have to dig deeper to expose it and do a deeper notch that has to be well exposed, by enlarging it from the outside, in order for the second mold that you cast on top of it releases well. A process for which the animal himself can be useful because his nature so permits. However, make sure that you reveal the lizard's throat more than you would do a snake, because the lizard has big jaws and big bones that do not cast as easily, and has deep ears in which the wet sand is not as easy to remove. But you will avoid all of this if you expose half of the head and those things that you know do not release easily. When everything is well exposed, blow over it and wipe each part again with a cloth made of swine hair, slightly dampened into salt water or clear water, do that gently, that way the lower part of your uncovered animal will be very neat. # 🝋 Once it is done, dip the covered side of your mold into water for a pater noster. It will suck water inside, that way when you'll rub with oil the uncovered side, the oil will remain on the top, and to prevent the second cast which you will cast on top from sticking. Dip your mold into water, take a particularly fine brush and rub with oil the entire mold but the animal; it should not be touched with oil. Make sure to use you brush between the parts and on all the fragile parts. And if by mistake oil is soaked, dip the mold into water, as it is said above, and drop by drop the oil will come back to the top.



left-top

Mold small animals as big ones, however, for small animals, use very fine tacks made of cords of cittern, short and long ones.

 



left-top



fig_p114r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5NVR5Y2FtZHM0ck0



remove all the little tacks with the help of very small flat pincers.



left-top

#

then

+illegible



left-bottom

#However, leave the tack which is pinned into the throat so that it will help you to turn the head over, because it is sunk deeper than any other part, because when you drew the plan, you put higher up. It is at the level of the head that you must make the biggest notch and you should start at that notch to expose and then keep following by looking at the traces left by the tacks. 

# and if a small piece of nail, or piece of tail, or other fine things separate from the mold, put a little piece of waxbetween them, and join them with the tip of a hot iron wire, then smooth it in your mold with a knife, and make notches on the sides in order for the other half of the mold to adhere to it. 🝋



fig_p114r_6

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5TTRuWU8yVktnc3M







114v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f234.image



fig_p114v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dmlRQm1lTjc4aXc

left-top







p114r_1

This thus prepared, put your first half-mold on the disc of clay, surround it with a clay circle and do a thickness mark similar to the first one. Then, with a rather thick brush, wet with spirits all your animal's exposed half, without, if possible, missing any part, because therein lies the secret to casting neatly. Then, as fast as possible before the spirits evaporate, soak your sand, and cast it, shaking, blowing, and moving the mold, as you did for the first one, making sure that what you pour first on the animal is clearer than the rest, so that it is soaked everywhere and highlights the finer parts. So, leave it for fifteen minutes so it sets, then remove the clay circle and disc. And, with a knife, join you two molds together in a longish form, like a mandore, as we say, because of how you cast. Then soak a little in water the whole mold up to the level of the joints. Because this is another secret to separate them more easily. Otherwise, you would break everything. Separate them like this skillfully. After this, gently and patiently remove half of the animal still in the mold, pulling it sometimes on one side and sometimes on the other, in order to avoid breaking it, or ruining parts of the mold. The mold, being empty, rejoin both half so that no dust comes in, and put them aside until you want to heat them up, make the runners, the vents and put the clamps. As for the animal, to avoid it drying, and in order to be be able to use it to mold 4 or 5 of times, put it on water. I believe that it would be better preserved in spirits. However, it would be best to make the 4 or 5 molds the same day because these animals rot and 

will smell within the day. Having left your molds to dry out, for they will stay humid for at least a month, make the vents for one half. 

fig_p114v_3

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dkk3MW10YzNIbDg



 



left-top

+ Note that once you have made your second casting, if you left your mold without opening it for a day or a night, you would then need to put it into hot water or reheat it, rather than open it, like for the crab.



left-top

If after both halfs of the noyau have set and hardened, it would not open if you did not dip it into water. But as you dip the back of your mold into water, oil comes back to the top and touches the joints which separates them.



left-middle

However, be sure that your second mold is thick enough, and hard enough otherwise it could break while dipping it into water if you want to open it. To avoid this mistake dip the entire mold into water and rub it everywhere, if the mold has set enough it will harden. Then take both molds with a rough cloth, in order to grip it better. Then strongly separate the molds as if you wanted to tear bread apart.  But in case it breaks, rejoin them, and fortifies the joints with clamps.



fig_p114v_4

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5NmZxVUxKTmhYSXM







bottom

Afterwards you can repair the mistakes with a small pair of scissors.





115r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f235.image



left-topFirst cast the tail or the back of your animal, make a cut from the head to the middle to the tail where you cast, and which is the end of the mandore. After casting do not forget to make holes, and to notch your casted metal. That way metal will run better than if do not notch it.  Indeed metal get damaged into notches, do not run too much and does not swell as much as if you do not make any notch. Put small clamps made of wire to the joints separating both molds it will reinforce the joints of your mold. Clamps prevent molds from distorting and from getting damaged while heating.



p115r_1Note about everything above said

If your snake hasn't eaten for a long time, when you want to kill it into urine and vinegar, it would fill with water and would swell, and then it would dry when you fix it on clay.

Once casted, and removed out of the mold, you could see a small empty line between the animal and the mold where sand will come in when you make the second cast. Try to avoid that if you can, but do not give up  your second casting because not much sand comes in this empty space and it will be easy to clear it with the help of a small needle, also this sand does not stick to the first cast.

 

Casts which must be reheated, like casts for gold or silver, or other matters which must be burnt inside the mold, need more stone alum than casts which are stripped of the mold easily, like lead and tin. However do not add too much stone alum.

 

p115r_a2Stripping animal

If you'd made such a twist to your snake that you can not stripped its belly easily of the mold, and if the head and the mouth are thinner, and easier to be removed, do cut away the extra parts  of the mold, and do reheat the mold again. The matter inside will burn, then add some quicksilver inside which will attract ashes and burnt bones, the pipe will get wider, and your animal will get easily out of the mold without being damaged. You can strongly pull your molded snake, because it is soft and malleable, and your mold firm enough to keep its print undamaged.

 

p115r_a3Reheating molds

When  your molds are reheated, and cleaned, cast as soon as possible, because if you keep your molds it will corrode and become damp. Reheat the thickest part, where  the body of the animal is, on high position because if there is something to be burnt inside it will fall down. Mark the high part in order to recognize it.

Once well reheated, do not damp the outside of your mold too much because the inside must stay red when you cast.

left-bottomIt is the shape of the clamp





115v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f236.image

p115v_1Tin casting

If the herbage or flower you want to cast is delicate and fine, tin must exceed lead in your mixture; on the contrary, if it the flower or herbage is thick,  you must add into your mixture more lead than tin. For a fine thing, add one part of tin for four parts of lead. Your mold must not be too hot, so you can hold it with your hand when you cast. Your alloyed tin must be very hot and almost red for casting, and that way it will enter all the small parts of the mold. Otherwise, your tin will cool down before reaching the thin parts of your herbage. Do not forget to mix a little bismuth in your mixture; that way, your tin will run better and be firmer.

  

left-topWith your lead allied with tin, or tin allied with lead, you can add a very little quantity of bismuth and it will look silvery. But do not put too much, because if hardens the matter and makes it sour, and if your work on fine things -- like legs and similar things -- it will not cast properly.

p115v_2Giving ventilation to your mold

If your herbage is very fine, in addition to vents, you can drive a thread through the clay contour of your herbage instead of casting with a needle, and thread it also in the herbage. The thread will burn, like the herbage, and the hole will remain, thus giving extra ventilation.

left-middleDo not remove your annealed molds out of the fire before they have cooled down by themselves. Also make sure that your very hot molds do not come into contact with wind or coldness otherwise they would burst. Do not reheat your molds before they are drained and firm again, otherwise they would cast before the vent holes are made and the clamps are fixed.

p115v_3Annealing core molds

After your molds have their cast vents and clamps, fix the clamps as above mentioned. Then make a round, made of bricks, at the edge of your forge, or in a clean place. Fill this round with big, half-lighted pieces of charcoal. Put your molds on the round, and leave it during half an hour, that way it will gently heat up and not  all at once. Finally, when coals start being white, add big half-lighted big pieces of charcoal and blow with your small bellows until hot. Do as such, slowly, until the molds redden inside and out. If you want to cast a herbage or an animal which are difficult to strip, and you need to burn what is in the mold, look into the cast and see if it is molds are quite red and inflamed inside; this will be a sign that they are properly annealed. If it is not so, increase the heat and keep at it until it becomes thus. If there is nothing inside the mold to be burnt, this heat is good for tin casting. The molds for tin casting are much better annealed in a reverberatory furnace.

[image]

left-bottom



fig_p115v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dHVja3NnV0dmMlk

Do not heat too much at first otherwise your molds could break

 

left-bottomYou know that your molds are annealed enough if the hole in the cast is red, on the contrary if the hole is black  the molds are not annealed enough.

left-bottomIf you want to cast silver, do not anneal twice, and if something stays in the mold and that must be burnt because no good […]



