157v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f320.image



p157v_1

Ashes in the moulds

You must let the mold cool down rather than blow into it to try to get the ashes out.  Because when the mold is hot, the ashes stick to it, and when it cold, they separate from it more easily, and will exit by blowing with le vent a vapeur.



p157v_2

Moulding a bird

You must give it its pose. And to do so, place it on its side on a clay base and hide it in the aforesaid clay base and sink half the aforesaid bird in it, so that it is only showing one leg and foot, then you will apply butter to keep the feathers down and then apply some spirits.  Then cast it.  And having taken hold, clean and uncover what needs to be uncovered.  Because the feet are made of bones which are hard to burn, and which will not be able to be cleaned neither with quicksilver, nor by any other means, if the mold does not open, uncover the bottom of the foot and the toe, or the nail of the claw, and mold it witha separate piece.  Make a second cooking and open your mold and clean the bones.  Feet generally remain too weak to support the a heavy bird.  Because of this one adapts an iron thread in the foot mold which goes through the body before you cast.  In this way they are reinforced.  Some mold the wings in a frame.  Some mold the head and the aforesaid wings separately en noyau, then reattach and repair them to start shaping the bird, which will firstly have a rigid shape and support the tempered sand.

 

left-middleThey are skinned and filled with cotton cloth.  And for the best result, you must prepare it in the way that leather-workers do, so that they do not lose their comely feathers.  The preparation is made of alum and flour paste.





p157v_3

Po{ur} f{air}e h{…} vin f{…}rs [?]

Prenez un chausson du pied droid t qui ait este porte et le faictes

tremper en eau et de leau q{u}i en sortira la f{air}e boyre au mesme

ou autre et v{er}rez merveilles

158r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f321.item.zoom

p158r_a1Mercury in molds, for cleaning



Take heed that your mold be quite cold when you blow in order to get the ashes out. And afterwards put in ☿ in order to finish the cleaning. Because if the mold is hot, the ☿ will go inside &amp; seek out the conduits in escaping, &amp; will leave its own odor, which will aggravate the tin or other metal that you will cast, such that it will break in touching the mold at all. The heat of the mold also retains some little grains of ☿ that will make lumps &amp; stick to the sides of the molded leaves and attach to them &amp; make them frangible. The ☿ cleans ashes well. Likewise flat things where there are not delicate traces that it could break with its weight. And therefore, if you can cast neatly without putting it in, don't use it at all. But if you have need of it, mix your crocum sand so that it withstands fire well. And after having put in the ☿, evacuate it, bouncing the end of the mold from below while moving it. Afterwards reheat your mold gently so that the ☿ is gone from everywhere. In this way I cast a branch of periwinkle leaves &amp; flowers very neatly. Having put a branch of melted [illeg] in the flower, on the back of the flower [illeg].

left-bottom

Reheat your mold until it is good and red before casting, so that the ☿ evaporates well.

158v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f322.image



p158v_1

Colors for green leafs

One usually paints them with oil colors, because distemper colors do not stay on. For marigold flowers, lightly ground minium for some of them; for more yellowish ones, mix in a bit of massicot. For green, the vert-de-gris is dark and too somber. If it is a yellowish-green, you can mix with the vert-de-gris a bit of yellow ochre and scudegrum. If the green is dark, mix in some coals made from peach pits, which makes a greenish-black, in the same way than the bone of an ox foot bone makes a bluish-black. And in such a manner, by judgement and discretion, put the color on the natural flower or leaf to see whether it is similar to the original. But paint it on very lightly so as not to cover the features of the work.





p158v_2

Large molds

Because of the heaviness of the metal, it is necessary to put them in a press so that they do not open.





p158v_3

Candle smoke

It allows the piece to be taken out more easily, and even if it is slightly thick, it does not stick because it has no substance. I have perfumed my core molds this way for tin and lead, and I have casted in a cold mold, but drying it well beforehand, and the piece came out quite cleanly. It is true that lead mixed with half the quantity of tin, because the medal was very thick, was very hot.





p158v_4

Casts

If the medal is very thick, do not pour a cast that is as thick; the cast just needs to be half as thick as the medal. But if it is thin, make a cast that is of the same thickness. Do not forget to make vents in the cast or the whole matter will fill with bubbles.



left-bottom

Never forget to oil the cast with wax when you cast herbs or flowers, otherwise it will break and cannot be taken out.



159r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f323.item.r=

p159r_a1

Portraits in Wax



If you do not mix your wax with any color dye, and if you paint some colors on the wax, these colors would fade if you cast it en noyau. But the representation is not damaged, rub it very lightly with spirits diluted with hot water. If your representations are varnished, repeat the molding process two or three times in order to remove this varnish which sticks to the mold. When the varnish is removed, your mold is very clean. If your representation is set on wood, it is necessary to pour very hot melted wax on the wood, otherwise the mold sticks to the wood. It is much better to mix your white wax with white lead than ceruse, because white lead is whiter and more firm.

p159r_a2 

Chasing tool



If a chasing tool has passed through any part of the representation, it is necessary to rework the whole thing and follow it all again. Otherwise it would look like an additional piece.

 

p159r_a3

Fish glue



Beat it very finely and thinly on a well-cleaned anvil, then dilute your glue with spirits, put the mixture on hot ashes, and on a low fire, it will melt very soon. If the glue is not strong and thick enough, add spirits in greater quantity. Do not melt it in a fatty pot, but in a new pot if possible. It melts on fire and dries very quickly on fire. When your glue sets on the work, heat it away from fire, it will stick very strongly. One reworks flowers and delicate things made from silver, gold, tin and other metal with this glue which will not spoil your work.

p159r_a4  

Tin and lead



They must be beaten out very finely and tin will not get brittle or break, lead is a bit fatter. But that is why it is necessary to reheat it under hot ashes, and to beat several leaves together.

159v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f324.item.r=

p159v_a1

Cleaning files

Sometimes they get fat from the grease of lead, which is naturally fat, or also filings corrode them. And you will be able to clean them with hot charcoal or a wire brush made from brass.

 

p159v_a2Carnation

Mold a carnation like a rose, marigold, and all other flowers as discussed, that is to say cast the flowers in one mold, and the leaves in two parts in order to solder them onto the flower, this is the better way. But you could mold the flower and the leaves together in one single closed mold. I tried one which came out well from the mold. But the sand must be very thin, and you must blow very strongly.



fig_p159v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5LXNkdWdBLXZ1RVk

left-middle



 

p159v_a3Molds

Try to make one side as thick as the other, that way the two parts will be equally reheated. You can open this kind of mold in order to clean it, when you mold some animals, like crayfish, which burn. When your mold is reheated, do not wait too long before casting again, because it gets damp and loses its strength.

 

p159v_a4Unmixed plaster

If you reheat plaster as a stone it would crumble into water, but if you grind it before reheating it, it will not crumble into water, on the contrary it will harden in water, if it is good plaster like the one from Paris or from Spain which is as hard as a stone, and which is found through poor and dry earths, and which looks like white salt. German people use this plaster to make statues for their fountains, even if the statues are varnished they will not be damaged with water. On the contrary harden this plaster with water. When this sand is unmixed it sets much sooner. Oil very lightly your shapes of metal or of other materials otherwise you will not be able to strip plaster from the mold. And dip your mold into hot water in order to open it, if it does not open in hot water, it could open into boiling water. 

p159v_b4bIt is sometimes even necessary to boil the mold in hot water, as you would with wax if you were afraid it would not strip well.

Cold water draws oil out to the surface of the plaster that has sucked it in and thus it strips.

160r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f325.item.r=.zoom

p160r_1Presses for large moulds



fig_p160r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5ZDNJT25PWjlUbGM





fig_p160r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5MEUzMjhxUVl1ZTA

right-top



It is made of two sheets of iron, fasten with four small iron pillars, in such a way that the upper sheet is able to move and run freely along the pillars, while the lower one is fixed. A St André cross, made of iron, stops at the end of the pillars; there is a screw in the middle of the cross, which squeezes the sheets against the molds placed between them.

For small molds, we make a frame; having put the mold between two metal sheets, we squeeze it in the frame with  for  small moulds, put the mould between two iron sheets, and squeeze it  with wedges.

Big wooden presses, with a screw, apart from being heavy to move to the furnace for casting, make it difficult to see when they squeeze too much, and they often break the molds.

 

The screw is fixed to these nuts which are nailed down the upper plate, this way it raises and presses the mould.

 

p160r_2Sand to cast flowers

In casting with thick sand, flowers crumple; it squeezes them into a mass. For this reason, be sure to dilute your sand very thinly, and blow on it so the flowers are not entirely covered. When you dilute your sand, do not only stir it with the small shovel, but beat it as you would egg white.

160v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f326.item.r=

p160v_a1Moulding a foot or a hand

Mix resin to the wax. Once well blended, soften the mixture in hot water or urine. Then press [the foot or the hand] in the mixture in order to get an impress, then pour plaster; the cast will which will be clean and come off easily.

 

p160v_a2Fine work made of gold or silver

You can mold flies by hand,without casting; the wings and the feet can be soldered, which you could not do with fine works of lead or tin, because they would melt. You can enamel the work made of gold.

 

p160v_a3Catching crayfishes

On the end of a stick, attach pieces of liver or lung, from beef or mutton. Then hang a basket to the stick with a little string. Put the basket into water where crayfishes eat; they will soon aggregate on the flesh. Pull very gently your stick out of the water; the crayfishes which will try to return to the water will fall into the basket.

p160v_a4Catching passerines

If they sleep in the farmyard, like they commonly do, close to the house, let the closest window open, and put a lighted candle close to the window. The candle itself must be hidden, only its glimmer must be seen through the room and through the window; all the passerines will then lock themselves into the room. But the night must be very dark, without any moonlight.

  

p160v_a5Catching birds

During winter, when birds have molted, skin them and fill them with cloth and stuffing, or dry them well in an oven. Then arrange your birds on trees, have some [look like they are] singing, [look like they have assembled] and are numerous.

the oven must not be too hot. This [method] is good in the summer, because flies would set into the eyes and make works before they [birds] could dry. You can work on the birds more easily in the winter, because they dry by themselves.

161r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f327.item.r=

p161r_1

Preparing sand for box molds

After your sand [which is made] of gip de lateribus and alumen jameni is moulded as a core, gather the left-over pieces of your mould, and break them up on a long table with a big metal block until they are very well crushed. And for an even better result, sieve them neatly.  Place them in the oven pots of tile-makers, in a bread oven, [firing them] several times, when it is well heated so that they become very red. When cooled down, rebreak them if you need to and sieve them. After, put them in a vaisse, a semal or a vessel that is appropriate and clean. And then wet it with clear water.  And crush it and mix it with a big stick until it is very well-moistened and rinsed, and the dirty parts rise to the surface of the water.  Keep stirring in this way the dulled gip, that one prepares to gilt burnished gold over five or six days, until it is in no way lumpy. And each time your stir it, leave it to rest and cull the clear water that will be on the top by tipping the pot, or with a porringer, or with a sponge. And put in some new clean water and in this way wash and stir until it is refined and purged of all filth. Then leave to drain a little bit and to dry and make of it some balls, soaked in sal ammoniac. Having been thus dried, put them to be recooked in very high heat in a reverberatory furnace for a good amount of time, where they will become very red. Having been recooked in this way, crush them and try to mold something in a box mold, having moistened your crushed powder with water of sal ammoniac. And reheat and redden you box mold, and if your sand comes away, then you must crush it again and moisten it again with water of sal ammoniac. Remold it in two balls and recook it and redden it and continue this for as many times as necessary until it does not come away from the box mold when the box mold is reddened. The main thing is for it to be well recooked, because otherwise the sal ammoniac will not calcinate well and will make the sand coarse. And for this reason, you should not put in too much sal ammoniac.

left-top

# 

Note that before drying it, you must first wet the whole thing and empty the liquid in another ordinary vessel, taking out the litharge, so that the stones and the earth remain at the bottom afterwards. You must leave it to rest and then empty the water by tipping it, and then leave it.

left-bottom

nota

161v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f328.item.r=

p161v_a1Crocum ferri

It can be made quickly if you put very filings that are very neat and have been washed in an iron drum that is only two fingers high, and cover it, and redden in a reverberation furnace, having washed it in good vinegar for a whole day.  And it will be very well burnt and clean, mixed and crushed on a marble slab. Having been well crushed and when well mixed, the vinegar will corrode it easily and will redden it quickly and bind it. Wet it with the strongest one you can find and burn it after. And after three or four wettings and burnings it will be ready. This one will be the color of columbine and is considered firmer for casting than the one that is redder and more beautiful in color, done with rusty filings and has more color in it. Some burn the filings many times on a shovel of red iron, watering each time with vinegar.

162r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f329.item.r=

p162r_a1For La Boutique



According to Herodotus the Portuguese did not invent [deep sea] navigation as they put about. At the beginning of the first book entitled Clio, he says that the Phoenicians used to come navigating straight across from the Red Sea to the Greek coast, mainly to Argos, where they would bring merchandise from Egypt and Assyria, which they usually sold out within 6 days.

left-top

Navigation, commerce



Herodotus, page 1 of Clio, says that the Greeks traveled in a long ship to the coast of Colchis and to the River Phasis, where they carried off Medea.

 

left-topGalleys.



Herodotus, page 3, says that Gyges offered to the temple of Delphi "pateras aureas sex pondo 30 talentorum".

left-bottom

Gold vases

 



Halyattes, the father of Cresus, "pateram ex ferro compactilem apud Delphos dedicavit spectatu dignam inter omnia quae sunt Delphis donaria, opus Glauci Chii qui solus omnium compactionem ferri excogitavit." Compactile ferrum means made by assembling separate parts.

left-bottom

Iron vase assembled and soldered



As small peddlers lay open small wares in order to buy more precious ones &amp; to make more and more profits, I also, from a desire to learn, am laying open the little that is in my boutique in order to have through receive through a common commerce des lettres much rarer secrets from my benevolent readers.

 

p162r_a2

Aes ustum 



When it is finely ground it moulds very cleanly. It has a certain fatness that makes it bind better than filings, I believe that it may not be ill suited for casting.

 

p162r_a3

Rotten wood



Wood that is white, being light as a sponge, if burnt in a close fire, may be used for casting lead in a box and molds very cleanly, but these things [such material] do not withstand [open?] fire. 

162v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f330.item



p162v_1

Peach trees

Because they cast and blossom from the outset, and so are caught by the frost. We expose their roots during winter so that the cold slows them down, and they blossom later, which benefits their flowers.



 



p162v_2

Olive trees

In Spain they expose their roots during winter and in spring they earth they up again.



 



p162v_3

Foot of bittern

To mold it it is better to extend its fingers and nails on something flat and let them dry this way for a few days, because in drying the scales will be rougher and the nerves and and tendons will be more apparent, and so the molded foot will be more artistic.





p162v_4

Molds of things which have not been

pelted

Animals who have not been pelted can only be molded in a double mold, which can only be opened after they have been refired and after the enclosed animal is completely burnt. Animals with bones or scales which are not reducible to powder thus remain in calcined pieces which will never removed from the cast, however much bellowing or whatever amount of quicksilver is put in, or by using a feather pipe while molding to make a gate. This is why you mold in two halves: so that once the mold is opened after having been refired, the thing you've burnt can be cleaned out. But I advise letting it cool so that in taking off the clamps (being hot) nothing cracks while it is still fragile. While it is hot the crust and cinders which it leaves and which stick to the mold can be more easily removed when it is cold. Also note that on the side of the lower mold when you reheat the animal, which in boiling leaves a crust, in this case, always mark on the mold where the back of the animal is so that in reheating it is to the top and above and will by this method stay cleaner.

163r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f331.image



p163r_1

Perfume-makers

They readily make their perfumes with half amber and half musk, and a little civet, because the scent of amber is stronger than the scent of musk.

 

To save using amber, perfume-makers readily add add a small quantity of musk to the white layers, in order to get a stronger scent. But to remove or hide the blackness of musk, they add a bit of starch from England, which is perfectly white.

To give off a scent of white amber, in the same way that the Portuguese do, take a chunk of amber that you have broken up into pieces.  Having put in a small silver porringer a spoon of flower oil, should you not have some, linseed oil.  That is to say, use the type of silver spoon one might use at the table.  Pour into this your ambergris, then place it on a low fire, it will melt quickly if your amber is of good quality, and there will be no lumps.  Having melted it all, put in a small bit of civet, and melt it all and blend it well together.  Then take your gloves which you have cleaned and dried properly, and lightly dip the edge of your finger around the edge of the oil, with patience slowly spread the oil along the glove, and rub the glove between your hands and trace along the fingers and its stitches, one after the other.  Leave it to dry.  Then repeat the previous procedure until you have used up all of the amber.





p163r_2

Spirits

Spirits are excellent for making molds clean, in such a way that where you do not apply some, common sand will attack the figure. But it needs to be passed three times. And because it does not take well on oiled things, I believe it may be best to put some into the water with which you have moistened your sand.

163v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f332.image



p163v_1

Crayfish

The hairy little horns that it the crayfish has under its snout tend to come out lumpy and unclear because, after they are burnt, it is difficult to remove and clean away their ash, which, staying in the mold, prevents the metal from running well. And for this reason, one makes a small gate of wax thread at the tips of them, in order both to hold them up and to blow away the cumbersome ashes from inside.

 

left-topDo not spare any pins, placing them not only in the middle of the body, but also on the big legs, and two or three on the tail, according to the positioning that you want to give it.



 



p163v_2

Crocum

That which has become rusty by itself, having been doused with water, salt, and either vinegar or urine, and then well-dried and reddened by heating, is deep red when crushed on porphyry and is of the color of bol de levant, almost like minium. But that which is doused with urine and dried acquires a deeper color and almost like crushed aes ustum or like vermillion. But the first one, finely crushed, acquires a bright red color like cinnabar when placed in spirits. And the one and the other, when prepared as said above, finely ground and made very hot, produce a red smoke like an acid vapor if, being thus hot and fine, one throws vinegar, urine or spirits on top. The urine makes a lot of color and the spirits as well.



fig_p163v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5anJvd0FQQ3BkRFE





 



p163v_3

Repairing

It is much better to only lightly repair your work with a burin called an "onglet" or the one called "chaple" or with a small file. Above all, avoid touching your work, but touch only the burr or lumpy parts that will have occurred during the casting. While reworking, moisten and rub your work with a small bristle brush.

164r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f333.item



p164r_1

Casting



When you make a cast of delicate animals, like snakes, start by casting the belly side, or the under-tail, for this side has straighter lines which are easier to rework than the back side, which is more veined and is more marked.



 



p164r_2

Repairing burrs



Remove burrs very carefully with the point of a chaple or a burin, then scrape the burrs with the side of a burin, or carefully with a small file, and rub with willow coals and small brushes. Continue, also, with the lines not interrupted by burrs.



 



p164r_3

Leaded silver



A lot of silver is wasted because of the lead which is mixed with it, as occurs in cupellation, and makes it leap in small bits onto the edges of the crucible and onto the charcoal which covers it and is also gross. And by this means, it is good to melt silver coins, like reals and others, and make them into ingots prior to casting lizards or animals, for it comes out better. I cleanly molded a small, silver viper, like in the first recipe above. And at the end of the line of 4 reals (of 20 S of Spain), and one coin of 20 S from France.



 



164r_4

Blowing



When you smelt silver and gold do not blow too hard or with force, because the charcoal will become spent and the crucible will sink and, potentially, spill over. But when your mold is ready, blow strongly in order to properly heat the silver or gold. When all are melted it is necessary to blow over the top with a small bellows, doing the same for gold, for it removes and reduces the smoke.

164v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f334.item



p164v_1

Molds



For molds wherein something must be burned (away), and do not open before being reheated: do not cast before refiring/reheating. For large molds that produce large and wide casts, it is necessary to score it with strong notches so that the pitch of the metal does not run as forcefully. These will not make many burrs if they are pressed. Prior to doing so, place between the mold and the press pieces of thick felt for mittens, which will fill the cavities and protect the mold from cracking. The clamps should be placed prior to heating or drying.

 



top-left

When the ground from which you are making your earthen base to lay out your animal is too soft, the pins you place come out easily when you cast the sand and so the mold is spoilt and the design is defeated. Therefore when you know that your slab is too tender and soft, spread some hot cinders over it and blow with the bellows.



 



p164v_2

Sable



If you don't add enough alum de plume or crocus your mold will easily crack when heated. But if your sand is mixed as it ought to be, the mold will sustain itself. You'll know it's of good quality when, while still hot after casting, it immoderately soaks up the water when dipped and breaks easily, because the alum and the crocus render it spongy. To the contrary, bad sand, which is composed of plaster and brick and is not well mixed with alum, breaks easily in fire and hardens in water. If possible, cast all at once.



 



p164v_3

Molds



When you cast lead, your molds must be very dry, even if the molds are large. The outside of the molds must be reddened, and it is necessary to keep them in continuous heat until they do not smoke anymore inside. Do not reheat your molds several times, but continue when you have begun and do not let them cool in the cold because they will crack. Let them cool near the fire. When your molds are still as warm as above, remark, you can put your finger into the casting gate without burning your skin. If your mold is large, it takes more time to cure and to dry, and you must also cast warmer.

165r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b9059316c/f336.item



p165r_1

To repair

If in your cast, there appear some little hole, fix it with black or gray filling gum wax.





p165r_2

 

Lacquer

If, having been ground, you let it dry without keeping it in water, it will dry out and it will be quite difficult to crush it as before.





p165r_3

Stretching a canvas portrait

If it is crumpled or folded from when it was rolled up, moisten the back side with a wet sponge. Then stretch it very evenly without damaging it.

 



p165r_4

Plaster for molding

When it is long to set and dry, it means that it is too fat and moist, which is what makes it shrink away from the fire and crack. [This is] where burrs come from.  The one that comes from lean earth is better. You must not store your moulds made of fat plaster for a long time, because they resemble fat earth, which when drying, cracks. The best is to reheat them soon after they have been made and cast. Moulds made of good plaster can  be stored a long time.

 



left-middle

It is necessary to oilit well, because it is more difficult to separate the two halves of these moulds than when it is mixed.





p165r_5

 

Dragon's blood

You can imitate dragon's blood with lacquer, which surpasses it in beauty, if [when] diluted in oil, you use it to ice gold or silver. Diluted with varnish, it fades.





p165r_6

 

Repairing snakes and lizards

You could make some marks according to the form of their scales, making some bigger ones and some smaller ones, according to the shape of the neck, the body and the tail. If there is something broken, you can attach it with small iron or steel nails, and glue it with some mouth glue, then cover the whole thing with gray or black wax.  But it is necessary to let the glue dry for one day without touching it.

165v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f336.image

p165v_1Positioning animals

Not only with iron pins, but also with melted wax, are animals secured to the plate of earth. Wash them first in clear water, after they have died in the mixture of vinegar and urine. And with a sponge clean off their mouth, eyes and head of the froth coming out, because the sand would never set well there and would become lumpy.

left-topIf you want to keep their mouths open, insert a little bit of harpsichord string, which will not take up much space.

 

p165v_2Keeping animals

Having molded them once, if you want to keep them for molding again, put them back into the mixture of urine, vinegar and spirits where you killed the others, and they will keep for a long time without decaying. If you have a cut on your hand, take care that this mixture does not touch it.

p165v_3Molds

After molding them do not keep them for long, but use them as soon as you can, because when kept for a long time, they are prone to spoiling.

 

When your molds are reheated, the thing comes out better.

 

p165v_4Lute

When reheating, you might as well use common lute, But when you want to cast, strip it from the mold and, using a brush, quickly apply a layer of plaster lute that has been used for molds, because it will be dry as soon as it settles, and cast. This lute should be mainly placed on the joints.

 

p165v_a5Silver

When it quivers after melting, that is a sign that it is very hot. And since it commonly contains much lead, it is good to throw in some lime mortar because that attracts and gathers in the lead.

 

p165v_a6Fly wings

So that they come out best, place wax sprues from the gate up to the tips of the wings. Also make sure there is enough wax under the belly, because that is what makes the cast succeed.



fig_p165v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5UmhqY1RkWFRhYzg

left-middle



 

p165v_a7Attaching a fly wing or something similar

They can be attached with fish glue mixed with spirits over slow heat, heating also the work. Then that is covered with wax "à ébaucher", that should be grey.

166r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f337.item.r=

p166r_a1For The Workshop



If anything has been omitted: the harvester is not blamed for leaving some corn ears. 

If some craftsmen complain that their craft secrets are being discovered, as the goddesses of Eleusis complained to N… the Pythagorean that their mysteries were disclosed, excuse yourself in the words of the ancient Hebrews quoted by Josephus.

 



As a hen will carefully search the rubbish thrown out of a house for a crumb or a seed to distribute to her chicks, so will the orphans receive whatever has been discovered in those arts that are considered vile and despicable.



Tablet of Cebes: idle. But The Workshop represents all things active. 

 



If the jealous will disapprove picking up these things and taking them from others, reply that since "Nullum est jam dictum quod non dictum aut factum sit prius" and it is commonly believed that all arts were invented within a thousand years, do not imagine you could invent anything new but rather rediscover the long-buried, unknown and forgotten books of Numa in order to reveal them to those who are ignorant of them; and that, just as the day before teaches the day after, you also needed to learn from those before you in order to teach those after you. The Latins learnt from the Greeks, as Cicero did from Plato and Virgil from Homer (Aulus Gellius). Valerius Maximus only reawakened various authors who had written previously, and Livy's 23rd book [revived] the 2nd or 3rd book of Polybius. Among the Egyptians, Serapis was deemed the inventor of agriculture, but among the Sicilians, it was Ceres. Pythagoras and others from Tyana learnt during their travels those disciplines which, back in their countries, they claimed to have invented. Does one not call a weaver the maker of his precious cloth or fabric, even though he did not himself dye and twine [the yarn] nor wind and prepare the reels and balls of thread? Is a mason not the builder of the house, for picking up ready-made stones? "Apollo a Chirone medicari didicit &amp; tamen deus medicinae habitus." "Homerus Orphei poema imitatus est, nam cum Orpheus sic prius exorsus esset, 'Iram cane dea Cereris frugiferentis', ita reddit Homerus, 'Iram cane dea Pelidae Achillis'". In Justino martire, Circa princip.



166v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f338.image



p166v_1

In addition to Greek examples, there is a psalm of David mentioned by Saint Athanasius in the Synopsis. It begins "Parvus eram" and in the second verse the royal prophet says, "Manus meae fecerunt organum et digiti mei aptarunt psalterium."





p166v_2

Keeping chestnuts

They must be left in their burs until you want to eat them. And in their burs, store them in a humid place, or in the drain of some roof.



 



p166v_3

Scented candle from Le Mans

They melt in with wax and candles rosin that is called in France [rosin] from Burgundy, which is white and not as rough or dry as the other rosin. They also perfume the wick and the end of the wick.



 



p166v_4

Softening gold

Dissolve some caput mortuum in distilled vinegar. Filter and congeal in salt and cement the ☉ with this, and it will soften wonderfully.



 



p166v_5

Improve the color of gold

Put some aqua fortis made with vitriol on hot embers. Cover the bottle, that is, the vent, with a tile. Then uncover it and a thick smoke will come out in which you put the gold and it will take on an excellent color.

167v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f340.image





p167r_1



The ones weighing about 27 lb. are ix "pousses" long and the mouth is 6 [pousses] in diameter. At their bottom, they are 6 "lignes" thick, and 3 for the mouth. The ones weighing 17 lb are 8 "poulsses" long and the mouth is five [poulsses]. They are all covered together, all the forks, rods, and tools which one uses, with a big canvas or big cloth so that they do not make any noise. It is good that they sit loaded for a while. After the powder has been put in, it is grinded very hard and then tightly pressed paper is put in, then a cake of well pressed wax and, on the wax, another slab of cork that fits in very snugly and that you have to force in. In this way, the powder remains well packed and gives much greater force, and if you wish, you can put on the cork slab one of wood pierced in the middle, if the mortar has a pierced bottom, which is believed to be the easiest and which makes a greater hole because it cannot recoil. And for these that have a pierced bottom, one must have a good gimlet to first make the hole so that the rod, which is made by the point of the gimlet, has before and without noise attached the mortar. And for these, one must cover the button, which is quite sharply filed, with waxed canvas, or add wax to it so that it completely plugs the hole in the bottom. But because the doors are sometimes iron and the iron rods cannot pierce it, an iron fork made like pincers and another iron stick made with three claws, like you see painted, are use. And in this way, the mortar stays in place well and is immediately steadied. The iron rods must come out of the mortar from every point made by the gimlet, namely by three or 4 finger lengths, which all enter in the door. When the mortars are placed, the touch-hole is filled with good powder and inserted in it is a feather shaft filled with tightly pressed powder and moistened with vinegar, or if needed, the powder is firmly pressed with the palms of the hands and, having wet it with some saliva, you shape it like a cocoon or



168r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f341.image





p167r_1



fig_p168r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5RUdzVWVNM3l6QVU

left-top



rod that we put into the touch-hole, and then, with a rope wrapped around the end of a baston, we ignite it and promptly retreat to take cover. The small mortars of 16 or 17 lb. are attached promptly with a short, hooked rod made like a wimble, and if it is of a good alloy, we can ignite it by hand. It is done in this way for mortars of 27 lb., but then we only put three lb. of powder. The door really needs to be strong so as not to be blown off for seventeenth lb. mortars. Some people use little bells worn by oxen or mules as an door for the mortars. Others load two canons of guns and, with a gimlet and a string, tie them with the opening against the door. If the mortars are good and do not explode, they only recoil and cannot harm if one is next to them.

 

A is a small rod, hooked like the hinge of a door and made as a biron on one end in order to quickly attach a small mortar with handles of fifteen or xvii lb. for a common door or window.

B is a small mortar with handles.

 

C is a common mortar of 27 or 30 lb. pierced at the bottom, where a large iron rod passes, button-like on one end made like a biron on the tip so as to quickly hang the mortar against a door that will not be covered with iron plates.

 

D These are slabs of wax, cork and wood for loading the mortar and well packing the powder.

E iron fork made in the form of pincers as tall as a man, used to quickly set the mortar without a rod. It must be of soft iron so that the sides fold easily, if needed, and to accommodate the height or width of the door.

F is another iron fork of the same height that supports the fork made as pincers and also sustains the mortar, and with its low claw prevents the pincers from recoiling.



168v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f342.image





p167r_1

G mortar with handles placed with its rod.

 

H knife-like saws to cut, if needed, a portcullis.

 

J the big iron rods that cross and tie the mortar.

 

K are like iron rods, all round and covered with cloths, like all the rest, so as to make the big iron rods, pierced close to the button, turn.

 

L axes that one must always carry to chop and to break, in the fortuitous case that the mortar has left anything entirely.

 M a large wood mallet for knocking down what was begun and weakened by the axes and "birons".

 

N are big wheelwright augers and birons for easily cutting a door or window by making large holes close to one another.

 

O crutches as tall as a man that must be carried to put under a portcullis immediately after the canon has been shot and to prevent the portcullis from falling.

 

P are small iron pincers for putting any low mortar against the bolt of a door.

169r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f343.item



Molding a tortoise

Furry animals

Birds

Leaf of vine - put

Of the strawberry

Piece molding

Molding a vase in a chassis

Molding capilli veneris

Molds that need to be supported by nets

Molding a bouquet

Rose carnations

Hollow molding

Hollow gilded silver

Molding wort plant put

+ Crayfish put and seen

Grasshoppers

Barbots

Butterflies

Flies

Bats

Enameling thin gold

Molding in sugar

Molding fish

Molding in sulfur put

Cardboard

+ Wax put

Roughing out

Stamped medals full of lead

Molding large carved wooden pieces

Molding and making casts of metal animals

+ Wheat oil put and seen

Stag beetle

Foot of a bittern molded

Thickness of a medal

Very hard wax

Molding the engraving on a ring

Molding pieces of carcanets

Things that do not release from the mold … 

Fountains

Grottoes

Sundry mosses applied

Molding in three chassis

Tempering iron in order to engrave it

Etching on silver and iron

Stamping

White enamel, softening it with black calcinated river pebbles

169v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f344.image



p169v_1

Molding very thin likebimbalotiers do

They mould in paper or cardboard, because neither sandy earth nor metal would mold so neatly and would not receive.  Or they engrave with stone from Istre, for the main side, and the reverse is in paper or cardboard.



 



p169v_2

Reducing a round form into a hollow one

You must firstly mold it with plaster as has been said before, and in the plaster throw in some wax from which will come a relief that you will repair very neatly, and will shape at your pleasure.  Then you will mold this wax relief once more in plaster, or even better with your tempered sand, #, as if for a noyau.  And in the latter throw in some lead and from this you will have a very neat relief, and if it is not, repair it on cement or a similar material, and beware that it should always release well.  And this one will always serve you as a model for making as many hollow molds as you would like.  In this way, place half of your lead figure which you have oiled, and moisten it with spirits as we have seen above, on your clay base, then mold this half with a white plaster.  Having taken hold, and having smoothed and flattened the plaster, take your black wax mixed with sulphur as we have seen before, because it leaves nothing in the mold and melts quicker.  Dip it in hot urine, and once it is softened enough, make an imprint with it on your half figure in lead.  And you will have a very neat hollow mold.  Then adapt your wax hollow mold into a square shape, as it pleases you, as long as you have sufficient thickness, and make sure it is well even on all sides, and then mold this hollow wax; and having it imprinted on one side, and having it flat and even on the other, in the same way that you would mold a flat medal in wax or metal in a noyau.  And the noyau mold will give you, whether in silver or any other metal you wish, a figure similar to the wax one, which is to say, flat and even on one side, and hollow on the other.  And having cleaned this hollow, and having put it in the bleach, if it is made of silver, you can put into it some sugar work

left-topHaving made a hole in your clay base and having placed there your half figure in wax, oil it a bit so that it comes out more easily.

 

left-middleTransparent wax is not good as opposed to one that has body, for making good imprints.

 



fig_p169v_3

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5MGtBY2MyYTNKTUE

left-bottom

 

left-bottomBecause you have molded one of your halves with plaster and wax, you can do the same thing to the other half.



170r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f345.image





p169_2

perfume and similar things. But be sure that the black waxwith which you cast is hard, so it will come off rapidly when dry so you can see if it has been stamped correctly. It can be made harder by adding more melted sulphur in the melted wax, and a bit of resin. 





p170r_1

 

Common medals

Relief awls are made of untempered steel, and then it is tempered. With it we beat on a matrice, not red hot on the fire as some people think, but on some steeled iron, reheated and adoulcy, that is then tempered.





p170r_2

 

Casting

Do not cast all at once because in doing so, the metal overflows and gets cold instead of going to the bottom [of the mold]. Rather, cast it bit by bit, and gently.





p170r_3

 Iron clamps

When you put them for the second time, make sure that the mould does not wobble.





p170r_4

 

Molds

Those with noyau, when reheated, should be placed on half lit charcoal, without being in contact with the air; like the frame molds, they need to dry in the open, and uncovered.





p170r_5

 

Thick tin pieces

They should not be casted with lead or red tin, like thin and fragile things. It is enough if they are well melted and hot. Fragile things need to be red hot and made of red tin.





p170r_6

 

How to clean closed molds

You have to leave them cool down rather than blow inside to clean them, because they hold the ashes when they are hot. Once cooled, they are easier to clean. Have a find brass wire or steel wool to thoroughly clean the guene because it is through it that you cast. Blow into it and siphon, bringing it to you. Give it volume before casting the tail with wax, then cut it.



fig_p170r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5amQ1YVRWWnFGWUE



 

 left-top



fig_p170r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5S3FNaEt0QmN1alU



make a tail by soldering a latten wire. The grains of a flower are quite little, so they can be removed with the chaple, but the leafs need to be peeled off correctly, then the paint will cover everything.



170v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f346.item



In the year fifteen hundred seventy-eight, the second of July, the heirs of the late Sr. Ouvryer received (two hundred and five ecus), the rent of Saint-Frajou, amounting to twelve hundred and thirty livres.

They have also received, as part of the revenue of the year fifteen hundred seventy nine, three hundred forty three and one third ecus.

And for the first year, they remain [to be paid] eighty livres and fifteen sous, | and for the second settlement, they have not yet received anything.

p170v_2Against plague

Against pestilential fever or poison or plague, take an ecu's weight of your opiate soaked in scabious or bugloss extract, or heavily diluted wine, if you are already ill. After taking it, you must make yourself sweat.

p170v_3To preserve oneself

Acetum paratum ex ruta baccis juniperi simul tusis Eoaceto extinguantur lateres igniti. Et vapor excipiatur ore [&amp;]naribus.  Rue vinegar together with crushed juniper berries. Pour the vinegar over red hot bricks and inhale the vapor through the mouth and nostrils. This is to preserve oneself when going into noxious air: a garment can be perfumed with this vapor in order to remove infection from a room, house, etc. And if you find yourself in a place where you do not have this preparation, carry rue and berries crushed together, then, if need be, boil them in vinegar and use as described.

Ottonis episcopi | Frisigensis | Ab orbe condito

Abbatis | Urspergensis | Chronicon

Hieronymus | Mercurialis, | Variarum

Rerum Scoticarum Historia, Georgio Bucanano authore

Rembertus Dodonæus, Mechliniensis medicus, | De stirpium historia

De L'Orme, De l'invention de bien bastir, and other works

 Telesius, De coloribus, Vascosan

Marbodius, De lapillis prætiosis

167r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f339.image



p167r_1

Mortars



fig_p167r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5QTU2dDJtWHU5Nmc



Mortars are made of the best alloy of "métal" and the finest possible rosette so that they do not burst, that is to say one part "métal" and two [parts] fine rosette or old caudron, which is even better. Some of them are of fifteen or seventeen lb. and are loaded with two and a half lb. of grain powder, and they are put on common windows and doors. Others are of a weight of 25 to 27 lb. and are loaded with eight lb. of powder. And in such a way, they are made according to the stress they have to resist. On the outside, they are all the same shape, but in the inside, they are made like a crucible, 

fig_p167r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5OUZCVWpfdmlzbWc

 narrower on the inside of the bottom and getting wider towards the mouth. And this is to reinforce the bottom, given the quantity of powder they hold, and so that they do not burst. Those of 4 s. lb. are eight lines thick at the bottom, and get thinner in the inside towards the opening, which is of 4 lines. They have xiii "poulsses" long and seven in diameter at the mouth and opening.



