015r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f35.image

p015r_a1Damask Cloth

You can make damask cloth of two different colours and imitate embroidery without adding anything else to it, as follows. Once it is is dyed yellow, pounce onto it such a pattern as will please you. Then you will sew some string or a bigger cord loosely onto the pattern and throw it into a dye of woad or pastel and it will become green, except that which is beneath the string, which will remain yellow because the green dye will not have penetrated there. And you can do the same with other colours and, instead of string or cord, add some pieces of poor quality cloth cut in Moorish shapes on top of the first colour. In that manner, you will have cheap embroidery.

p015r_a2Casting metals

Candlesticks and small works are cast in a frame with sand. Having stamped the work, sprinkle it with flour in order to make the copper or latten run better. When the sand has been in use for one month, it is necessary to take some new sand because that which has been used, being reheated +, dries &amp; loses its binding power. Yet it is used mixed with the new sand, because it makes the work less porous. Large works such as artillery, bells and similar things are cast in earth, and copper cast in earth makes less crust and is whiter than when cast in sand. The earth is sandy clay mixed with horse dung and cloth waste. The earth that has been used for casting, which is black, baked and as if burnt, is mixed with artificial sand, and is very good. For softening and making the copper run, once it is melted, one throws in some lead, which does not form an alloy but is found on the surface of the cast.

left-middle+ by the heat of molten metal

p015r_a3Casting gold and silver

The sand must be made from something very dry and arid and reheated well because, if it were humid, like founder's sand, the gold and silver would leap out of the mold and sustain damage. It is also necessary for the earth to absorb the metal because cast gold or silver become very porous. That is why it must be beaten out again, otherwise it is brittle, as seen in spoon handles.

