117r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f239.image

p117r_a1A way to mold flowers and herbs

It is necessary to pick them in full bloom and color, and only pick them, if it is possible, when you are ready to mold them so that they will not wilt. Or if you need to carry them from afar, put their stems in a bottle of water, or even better in wine. Start with making a wax stick pointed like a big peg, of a size adapted to what you want to cast, as you see in the margin, marked A. At the bottom of this peg, put and prick a bit of iron wire, rather thick and strong. And at the pointed end of the big peg, you will fit your flower stem or your herb.  This done, set it aside.  Arrange your clay circle and outline as you did for the snakes, in the shape of a mandore according to the size of your herb. Then take the herb you have prepared to be cast, as we have taught you, and wet and moisten it daintily with good spirits with a brush. Then place the wire end through through the end of the earthen mold, shaped like a mandore, so that the wax peg, where the herb is, touches the edge of the earthen mandore. And arrange your herb that lies thusly so that it remains in the middle of said mandore-shaped mold, without touching any of the side. So that the sand that you put in the mold will be of equal thickness everywhere, and will be two fingers higher than your flower. And having made sure that the wire is secure, quickly throw your wet sand that will be much clearer than the one used for serpents, in the mandore-shaped mold, and the quicker the better, so that your spirits do not evaporate.  And adjust your mixture with a bit of essence of sal ammoniac, unlike the one for serpents.  And when you make sand especially for casting your bouquets, mix in a bit of feather alum, this will only make it better. In this way, your mold will be in one piece and it will not be necessary to separate it, but you will have to separate it from the clay once it will have set.  Let it dry. And then fire it again until the herbs are burnt. Note that if the herb you want to cast has a strong stalk and stem, you can cast it lying down, as said. But if it is fine and delicate, plant up standing up with the wax peg  so that the sand will always raise it up, it being very clear.  Do not forget to arrange two vent holes with two small sticks, which will start at the bottom of the cast, which is the pointed end of the wax peg.

left-topIf the flowers are so delicate that they come off the top when you are putting in the wet sand, you can stop this and curtail it with a net sewed onto the mold with a needle.



fig_p117r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5WnpBbm8wN2gyTWs

left-top





fig_p117r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5VURRYzlWOFByNzQ

left-middle



left-middleThe more delicate the flower is, the clearer the sand must be.

 



fig_p117r_3

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dVB5bzVUWWJuS0U

left-bottom



left-middleThis is a core mold.

