083r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f171.item

p083r_a1Sand for lead

Recipe: Take grey soot from the silversmiths' furnace, quick lime, and flour. Moisten according to [the rules of] the art, in the finest possible way you can.

 

left-topThe locksmiths' grey soot which is held in their forge is quite fine when ground. It molds and is removed very neatly.

p083r_a2Sand for copper medals

Recipe: Take hat felt burnt on a covered fire, iron dross, and burnt bone, all of which you should grind very finely, crush and spray with water and salt. Make a paste of it, mold it, and wipe it with hay fire. These three pulverized sands, having been very well refined on the porphyry slab, mold very well and cast well. Know that separately each of them is quite good. Burnt felt molds well and is removed quite neatly.

 

left-topPlaster molds quite neatly but it swells. Bone does not have much body while iron dross does. Felt allows for an easy removal of the cast.

 

p083r_a3Other sand

Take charcoal made from vine shoots and clay earth, both well searced, and mix them with well-beaten egg white. Next calcinate it the resulting paste in the oven and to use it, dillute it in vinegar.

 

p083r_a4Other sand for use with lead

Recipe: Take finely crushed slate and pumice stone mixed together. Calcinate them three times in a covered and sealed pot in strong fire, and each time dilute them with urine.

p083r_a5Other sand

Recipe: Take a tile that has not been cooked too much, grind it and diluted it in white wine with burnt black trasse paper. If you add burnt horse manure to it, it will be all the better. Moisten with egg white.

 

left-bottomTrasse paper burnt under a light fire becomes akin to soft black charcoal. It molds nealty and is removed easily when mixed with the others ingredients or sands?.



p083r_a6Excellent sand

Burn alabaster in a crusol under charcoal fire until it turns into powder. Once it is cold, finely pulverise it through a sieve to make it impalpable. With a pound of alabaster, one should use an ounce of sal ammoniac. Mix well and incorporate everything together. Next, put it in a cave or a wet location. And with this paste, mold whatever you need and then dry the mold under a fire. While the sand is hot, you cast whatever metal you may like and your cast will be as neat as the principal. And the sand will always work if it is kept in a wet location and dried by the fire.

