069r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f143.image





p068r_3

with half lead works almost better than tin or pure lead, even though in any case they work well. Nevertheless heed that you cast lead not nearly as hot as tin. In big works it is necessary to wet the sands with magistra or egg white.

p069r_1Joiner

Three things take the longest, leaves, hair and garlands.

p069r_2Sand

 

For a cast, do not choose that [sand] that is in any way lean &amp; arid, such that it does not bind at all, like that from the sea or from sandy roads dried out by the sun. But choose preferably that from quarries or rock caves, since that one is best, as long as it is very fine. You will know the vein if, in the greyish rocks or quarries that seem to be made of sand, after rainy weather, you see certain little heaps like dust attached to the said rocks, or if the humidity causes them to shed stones that crumble easily between your hands. You will also find sand in lean soils, which comes off in large lumps like tuf stones, or in boulbène soils, which sands are much better than those from fat and strong soils. And do not take it from the surface, lest it be mixed with common soil, but three or 4 feet below and closest to the tuf or stone. When it comes off in large lumps it appears to have started to form itself into stone, but once wet it comes apart easily. When breaking it up, make sure that it is quite granular and that in crushing it between the fingers, it becomes really very fine, keeping nevertheless its sandy asperity, without muddying the fingers like clay. One dries it slowly on the fire, then pounds it and passes it finely through a double sieve or a linen sleeve, then wets it with wine or magistra etc. / Verte

left-middleThe Toulouse molder reheats it strongly then grinds it finely on a marble slab and passes it through linen and wets it with wine.  He makes the cast very large and flat and hardly deep.  He casts pure brass for scales and similarly thin objects. He casts very hot.

left-middleTry calcinated vitriol.



