005r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f15.image





p004v_a3

or linen cloth and leave it thus for xx4 hours and it will be engraved. But if you should want to engrave it quickly, varnish all your work and boil it in the aforementioned liquor, and this will engrave it quickly.

 

p005r_a1Steel mirrors

+They are called steel mirrors because in the past they were usually made of steel polished with emery paste. But more easily, various kinds are made of cuivre franc, which is rosette and tin, because these can be cast in a mold and made round, hollow, convex or in whatever various shapes you want to represent.

So take half copper de rosette and half soft tin, i.e. fine and yet unused. Place them in a crucible, and first melt the copper. Once it has been well melted, add the tin and mix them together and cast that in a white stone mold with no hole, and grease the mold, which should be moderately warm, with oil. Then, once your mirror has been molded, you can polish it in this manner.

Set one mirror in plaster to hold it firmly, then put the other one over it with fine sand between them, and rub one against the other, whether they are hollowed or flat, and thus you will polish both at once. If you want to polish them on both sides, you only have to switch them, which means putting the one that was polishing in the plaster and [using] the one which was in the plaster to polish. Once they have been polished with arene you can soften them with tripoli of Venice that should not be sandy, and then with paste. You use water with arene to polish, but polishing with tripoli and paste is done dry. Once the mirror has been polished, you can set it.

p005r_a2Concave mirrors

A concave mirror shaped in the aforesaid form produces an endless number of illusions which seem like magic. If one wants to see oneself from behind, you have to place the concave mirror on the ground on its foot, at a slant, and then look at it one step further. But if you look at it from a closer position, it shows you the right way up but with the face quite large and the hairs of your beard as thick as



