089v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f184.image

p089v_a1Ammonia salt and alabaster

Dry ammonia salt, ground  on a marble slab, molds very cleanly and is easily removed from the mold. When mixed with pulverized alabaster, use two ounces per pound of alabaster; it also is easily removed from the mold. It should be humidified in a cellar or in the cool humid evening air, or to have it quickly, in a sheet of paper in a moist towel. Take care not to leave it too long because it will soften, which would not be good if you wanted to use it as a box mold. However you can use it well as a core provided that you dry it gently and away from the fire. Otherwise the heat would make it swell, and push the salt onto the surface, causing lumps. If you want to mold a core,  rub your medal with aspic oil. It is better to use 4 ounces of ammonia salt per pound. Humidify it in a damp place for two or three days, so that the material can be handled without sticking. You will mold very cleanly. Let the mold dry out and reheat it, that way it will get body, and become as hard as stone and when it is like that it is far easier to remove from the mold. If you do not reheat it, it could crumble when removed from the mold because of its thinness. It is the same with a large relief medal. Once you have molded, pulverize the material like before, and moisten it in a damp atmosphere.

 

left-middleAll sands which can be removed easily from the mold have body, well-made fat ammonia, and  is sand that removes easily from a mold. There is nothing better for binding than the salt of the metal itself. When ground into powder, they pick up moisture, dry and reheat together.

 

p089v_a2White glassmaker's sand mixed with ammonia salt

You can find this sand in Cominge, near the town Aurignac. This sand is dry and as white  as salt. Glassmakers and potters use this sand ground on the porphyry until it becomes as fine as possible. Easy to grind, this sand looks like calcined alabaster, and provides a very clean mold. I have not found another as suitable for delicate bas reliefs. It is also excellent to mold as a core, without any box mold. You must grind it very finely on a porphyry with gummed water or pure water, then apply a thick coat (as thick as mustard or a little bit thicker) over the medal, which has already been lightly rubbed with oil, walnut oil or, even better, aspic oil. For best results, let it dry by itself, away from fire, for one or two days. If you are in a hurry, you can heat it; it should not break if the coat is quite thick. If it is suddenly exposed to fire, some holes will appear; that does not happen if it has been gently dried. Once dry, reheat it, and it should allow for several castings.

