147v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f300.image





p147v_1

+

Casting with copper alloyed with ☾, which is like very low solder and ard[...]es and old K and some Re out of xii

 

I have cast the cleanest I have ever seen, making very small figures as thin as paper. I have cast extremely hot in the very red mold, and have put into the melted mixture the two compositions which makes silver runny, and have done as if I wanted to throw with pure silver.  This league is white when it boils, as with every other alloy which contains even just a small bit of silver. To cast something very delicate, use this.



 



p147v_2

Lute

There is none better than the one you have used to mold, that is to say lumps from your molds.  But you need to choose some of the better recooked ones.



p147v_3

Crucible

 

Beware that it should be three fingers away from the mouth of the bellows and that the aforesaid bellows is positioned underneath the bottom of the crucible, otherwise it will cool it down.

 



p147v_4

Latten casting

 

I have taken the one you find in latten skillets, which have been beaten and forged quite thinly.  Having well-heated it, I threw in two or three grains, like beads of sal ammonicac.  This will clarify it like a mirror, having turned very white from all the heating, I threw in it some crushed raw and pure calamine.  The I casted it in its very red mold. Il cast cleanly and thin like paper, and hollow on the back.  Because it has become crusty I cooked it again, which to means to say, I reddened it, and left it to cool, then put it in bleach, made partly with raw tartar and half of common salt.  Having boiled it well, I brushed it in clear water, because the first time it was

 



left-bottomDo not let it cool down when melting. It always makes into filaments, as you would find with melted glass, because of the calamine.  Usually, the soft letten of skillets, becomes red from casting, even when it has been in the fire for a longtime, because the calamine evaporates.  But the brittle letten of candleholders becomes yellow, as well as the filings made of needles.



