123v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f252.item.r=





p123r_1

Your lute once dry, put your crucible in an four a vent in the early morning, &amp; at the beginning, give low fire, as much as you need to heat your crucible as to let the fury of the saltpeter pass gently. Then, little by little &amp; with judgement intensify the fire. And y leave in the fullness of this your ingredients for 12 hours, or a natural day.  Make at each go a good quantity of this mixture to not have to repeat it too often, because the fumes, which are dangerous, could hurt you. And before working with it, take a good piece of buttered toast in the morning, and hold in your mouth the said butter, or zedoary, or gold coins, and ada cover your face with a towel from the eyes down. From this mass, the crust will serve to make run clarify the great works of the silver from the metallic mass like snakes &amp; similar things when it starts to melt. But And then, the grain that will be at the bottom of the crucible should be reserved for principally delicate flowers and herbs putting a little in the melted silver when you want to cast it, However it is necessary to always put a little of this grain in the silver when you want to cast it is melted and when you are ready to cast as you do thus for fine tin on copper, &amp; for looking-glass tin on lead and on tin. And just as looking-glass tin makes lead and tin too brittle if you put in too much, likewise the grain composed of the above-mentioned ingredients would make your silver too brittle if l you were to put in too much, and obscure it.  This above-mentioned composition will suffice you for a long time, when it has been on a low low fire for a whole day at the beginning &amp; intensified degree by degree until the end. Having thrown one load of charcoal, let it consume itself, &amp; let your crucible cool down. Then break it.  You will find two sheets &amp; hard cakes in the crucible. The upper one looks stoned Once, once composed of salts,sublimated &amp; mixed together. The lower one is metallic, composed of fillings, aes ustum &amp; antimony, having very small grain. Pulverize the upper cake, made from salts, &amp; put some in to lighten &amp; clean the silver and the metallic grain can be used to put into the melted metal.

left-topCharcoal fire

 

left-middleOr, after you have pestled your drugs by a rustic, and having put them in your crucible, &amp; the latter luted &amp; dry as said &amp; place into the furnace, have the fire managed by a boutique boy, familiar with charcoal. 

 

left-middleOne sells this metallic mass to silversmiths to soften their solder, because when melting brass exhales. And with a little of this mixture, they solder over the other solder.

