058v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f122.item.



p058v_1

Blacks

Coal black, ordinary black lead black, burnt ivory black, peaches stones black, black smoke, black light, burnt oxes' feet bones black



p058v_2 

Shadows

When you are making a painting with several persons shadows as well as skins have to be different

  



p058v_3

Frescoes 

Azure is not good for that but [illegible] and you have to work with long brushes. Frescoes cannot be made on wood

 

p058v_4

Azure

Turpentine oil makes it very beautiful, try some palma christi seed oil. Nut oil in Flanders costs at least a hundred sols a pint. The azur requires some greasy oil for it is not thick



left-middle

Enamel azur hates more than any other to be ground, even with some water for it dies and loses all its color. Because however it cannot be used if it is big, grind it not with some water but with some oil and grind it thickly and so it will not die



left-middle

Always choose the thinnest one



 

p058v_5

Brushes 

When the color has dried inside them and you want to clean them soak them in some spike lavender oil and they will turn immediately soft again as before, then you will finish to clean them in some nut oil. Nut oilis not as appropriate to soften them as the spike lavender one which is clear like water and penetrates and is not as thick as the nut oil. Brush handles are made by those who work with care from porcupine hairs, by some others from fine branches of Turkish wood with which they also make small sticks to rest their hand when they are painting

 



left-bottom

To work properly on small scale you need some very fine brushes with a strong point. And because the hair taken from a squirrel's tale is mollesin, the most careful ones use the of oldest rats' hair and even of dormouses  if they can find some and put two or three in the middle of a brush. These brushes draw a straight line like a quill and all the other hairs stick to them. The hair of a stone marten or of a weasel and small animals used to make some musk are even better for just one hair is necessary in a brush



