085v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f176.image

p085v_a1Casters

 

They mix beaten egg white with earth of which they make the first layer of the crown of a bell in pieces. They also make bells and all other said pieces which the said egg white. This makes it come clean and sets and stabilizes the material. For the core of a small piece, egg white is also good.

 

Rosette in order to make it come clean, wants the mold to be a little hot and lead which is mixed with the red copper is therefore chiefly for small pieces.

 

p085v_a2Mortars

 

They should be of the finest material possible. In the same way, it is better to use copper for a cauldron than red copper, because it better resists a blow.

 

The mortars, therefore, used for grinding are stronger and there is less danger of breaking them if they are of fine copper. And for a private home, they do not ring so much and do not make as much noise as those of metal. It is true that those that are of metal ring louder for apothecaries.

 

Grenades must be made from fine metal

 

p085v_a3Sand from a mine

 

It wants to be well recooked for big metal objects. Some people burn it inside a furnace until it becomes quite black and they grind it on the porphyry. Other people burn it with asphalt, but when it is too burned, it does not mold so cleanly, because it lacks body, and is too thin. You can give body to the sand with tripoli or burned felt.

 

p085v_a4Sand Experiments

 

X I have tested sand of Th{oulous}e, and after seeing it well recooked two times in a skillet, I passed it through a fine tammy cloth, like the double sieve which apothecaries use, without grinding it further on the porphyry, as I have done other times. I moistened it the sand in  infusion with elm root, and in it, I molded a big piece of a portrait of Jesus. I found it unmolded very well without having to tire myself out by hitting it from behind and it molded cleanly on one side of the relief and on the other concave. And [it was] of the thickness of a coin of forty sols. I cast this very hot

 

left-bottomX

left-bottom

Sand from a mine, well chosen and well reheated, is the most excellent of all without trying to find all other mixtures because it receives all metal. It does not like to be used hot because it bubbles the more finely. For large works, it is not the best because it does not have enough body to sustain it,





 