097r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f199.image



p097r_1

Black varnish

This is explained at the beginning of the book where you can see that it is being made with some galipot.







p097r_2

 

Gilding

One prepares the hilts very well with a soft, indeed very soft file until there is no blackness left on the hilts, then heat them, and pass them as has already been said.  But to gild and gild with silver, they must not be passed change their color too much, except maybe leaning towards a blue.  Then while the hilts are hot, one ties them to a wood block and with some tweezers you apply the gold and fasten it with the sanguine and the sanguine is very neat and has been rubbed with putty. And when the hilts become cold, reheat them, then apply gold as said above.  And you must start with giving the hilt two layers, until it is well-covered.  And then reheat it as you did at beginning, and give it its third layer of gold.  Then burnish it with a sanguine, very strongly and with good strength.  But note that if you want to burnish well, your hilt must remain warm.  And to know this, you bring it close to your nose and smell it.  And because you cannot touch it with your fingers, take it out of the warm ashes with a small iron stick, which has been purposely made to fit into the eye of the hilt.  And when you have finished burnishing it well, rub it well with a piece of white linen, and make sure your gold is thicker and stronger than the ones painters use.  A quarter of a pound is worth fifty or lx s{ols}.





p097r_3

Gilding with silver

You must prepare the hilts and whiten them with a file, coarser than the one used for gold.  And you want to pass them change their color to grey, as you have done for the gold.  And since they are warm, you must double the leaves of silver and then divide them with a knife, and then apply them to the hilt with tweezers and a burnisher.  And then heat them again, and apply the silver, until they are all gilded in silver.  Then you must apply, for the third time, your doubled leaf as has been said, then burnish them very strongly and with good strength, not with the sanguine, but with a strong burnisher, just as you would not use a burnisher on gold.

