066r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f137.image



p066r_1

Double layers

The Flemish &amp; those who paint paintings by the dozen only apply one layer &amp; finish in one go. But the colors soon die. And when they are laid twice, they will not die. One needs to lay them lightly &amp; with minimal thickness, in order to soften them.





p066r_2 

Shadows

For women: asphaltum, umber and a little lake.



 



p066r_3

Painting in distemper on wood

Because it is quite tedious to paint in distemper on wood, and difficult to paint a face well, some mix their colors with egg white seeped through a sponge, or mixed with the egg yolk, water, and well beaten with the peeling of the fig tree. With this they paint &amp; soften on the wood, like with oil, and this supports the varnish, but this does not last.





p066r_4

Colors in oil that are imbibed

It is best that oil colors are imbibed, that is to say they do not remain shiny after they have dried for they will not die. But if in some places they are shiny, it means that the fattiness of the oil has remained in that place which will kill the colors. The varnish mends all this &amp; unites them &amp; renders each place as alike to one another.



The gold color needs to be laid thickly, for if it is clear it imbibes and runs.

On canvas &amp; in distemper, one gilds with bol, &amp; honey, &amp; a bit of garlic juice.





p066r_5

Gilding painting mounts with or mat

See the other side of this folio this mark: *

The Flemish give one layer of distempered glue on the mount, then they mix lamp black or soot black with the same glue &amp; leave to dry. Next, they pounce some moresque designs in the corners &amp; paint them with minium, massicot, ochre de ru, and a bit of yellow ocher, mixed with the fatty oil in which they clean their oil brushes, because the three aforesaid colors are griping and dry immediatly. And next, they apply the gold, then varnish on top of everything. And it seems by this way to some, that all of the black is painted in oil, but that would not be good because the gold attaches everywhere, and not only on the moresque. Go back to the top to *



left-top

*

Ormat

It is made with massicot, minium, ochre de ru, &amp; yellow ocher, so that the composition resembles gold. Gild the day after un jo it is applied, if you in the made the groundlayer the same evening as the color. Next, having gilded, leave it to dry &amp; rest for one day. Next, rub the gilding with a feather &amp; cotton, so that no small flakes remains, then varnish with Flanders varnish, which you make, mixed with a little spirit, to make it desiccative. 

The varnish will dry in an hour. It will enhance the gold color. And this or mat withstands rain, even if one rubs it, but it must be well dry, for eight or ten days. 

Gold color that is made of various colors cleaned from oil brushes is not so good &amp; with time tarnishes the gold because of the verdigris. One must not touch with the finger the layer made for the gold because that will prevent it from attaching itself there. The or moulu spoils if water touches it, but or mat withstands well the rain &amp; in water. One must not burnish it, because the tooth would remove it. Collect the small flakes &amp; small bits that the cotton removed when the gold is dry and that you clean it, for as little as an ounce is still gold. In Flanders, women make gild. It is more beautiful when it is a little thick but in France they beat it too delicately. 

Breathe on the gold color, and if it loses its shine, it is dry enough, but if does not welcome the vapor of the breath, it is not yet dry enough. 

One should not do or mat gilding after with having applied gold color, but wait one day and one night, but take heed to not and, when it appears to be dry, it will grip the gold. Next, one varnishes.





