051r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f107.image

p051r_a1Copying off patterns

Make some soap water and with it, rub and moisten the engraved stone that you want to transfer the pattern from, then lay a white sheet of paper on it and rub strongly against it with a sharp piece or the bottom of a glass bottle and you will transfer your stamped piece. It is true that it will be on the left side, but if you apply aspic or turpentine oil on your paper, it will be stamped on the right on the other side. Then trace these lines with a paint brush or a quill, then heat the paper and the oil will evaporate and it will leave your paper white. And if you don't want that to be known if, by chance, you borrowed the cut stone, soak the paper and the polishing that the polisher made on the back side, which distinguishes what has been made, will not be recognizable. The soap water will turn the piece yellow, but well gummed water, which has the same effect, does not do this. If you want to, for the same effect, make gummed water then, dissolve some soap in it and do as is said.

p051r_a2Cutters of printing plates 

To clean the copper plates or to have used ones print better, boil them for four or five hours in a good detergent with quite used laundry water. Then make your ink with some linseed oil instead of walnut oil and press with the rollers. The copper plates are ready sooner than the wood ones, but they are not so clean to print promptly. The wood ones are tedious but would have sooner printed twenty sheets against two [sheets] of the other. To print with wood, the secret is firstly to poach, that is to say to lay the transferred pattern or drawn piece down on the wood plank and to make sure that the drawn side is stuck to the wood. Once dry, you will gently rub with a moist handkerchief the reverse side of the paper which, by being rubbed, will become so fine that what will remain will almost only be the drawn part, which, after, one should trace while cutting the pattern. You could do that to ornamented glass and glass layered with black cut pieces, to then scrape and layer your colors on the uncovered [side]. To make ink for copper plates

left-bottomThese rollers are good for printing promptly with thick sheets of paper cut in different kinds of pastes.

left-bottomOne can place the plates among the linens when the detergent is rather fine, or also in a pot.



