020r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f45.image

 



p020r_1

@For making millas

You must have some millet soaked in order to remove the chaff and then clean it well. Next you must grind it again quite finely and pass through a cloth sieve. One must soak the flour with fresh melted butter and some milk so that it is very light, like the pastry to make beignets, and add egg yolk depending on the amount of flour, so that there are two egg yolks for each millas. Then you will put in some saffron if you want to give them a little colour. 

Afterwards you must have some molds, which must be made from terracotta, in the shape of the bottom of the catholic hat, but it must be open at both ends. And then, having made a good fire, clean where you want to put your millas and then take your molds and grease them very well so that the pastry does not stick to them when baked. Once you have done that, put your molds in a place in the oven where you clean and sprinkle a bit of flour on the bottom and fill them with some of the aforementioned pastry. Then you will cover the said molds, with a lid made like the mold, but it must be bigger and not open at the top. Then once done, you will put some straw on the said lid and a lot of hot charcoal, and set a fire around it, once done, you will open up one of them after a bit of time and will see when it is baked, it will be hard.





p020r_2

@Glazier

Glass from Lorraine is smoother and more even than plate glass. It is more durable and enduring. But commonly it is tainted with veins as if with straight lines and wrinkles, which happens because once the glassmakers have made it put it still hot on straw which therefore stains it. One can, however, rub it off with some varnish, salt and other drugs used by glassmakers. Lorraine glass is sold by bands and each band is composed of three panels. A band costs usually X souls. The plate glass is made in France, it is whiter and clearer but it does not last as long as that from Lorraine. It is also commonly blown And in that case, it is better to cut little lozenges rather than large square pieces in the shape of a frame because they cannot sit themselves well evenly.

left-bottom

The plate glass is sold in sets. Every set contains 4 plates that are usually sold at 10 or twelve lbs.



 