032v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f70.image



p032v_1

Mat Makers

Two kinds are made in Toulouse, one to cover rooms' walls which are finely woven, almost like straw hats worn by villagers, and are made in long rolls, some 10 straws wide, others 13. And they work on them mainly in summer and winter. Then when they prepare it they sew it, but beforehand they dye it in usually three colours: green, red and sometimes purple. The green one is made with only a pastel tincture since green is made from yellow and blue, so the pastel dyes the dark yellow straw. It becomes bright green. For red they use some alum and brazil wood, for purple they use pastel and some coperous which darkens blue with its black tincture.



 



p032v_2

Glassmakers

They have no way to produce a perfect red that needs to be annealed. Try, however, the German red which is scaled red. They produce their ordinary red with some sanguine, iced pewter, lead rocks, and some iron file dust. This red is to be applied on both sides of the glass because it is more colourful. If it were applied on one side only it would look pastel orange.





p032v_3

Founders

For 20 pounds they buy a quintal of rosette which is harder to melt than brass because it is milder. The milder great metals are, the harder they are to melt. Because the pewter used to make bells is fine and sour, it is easier to melt than lead, which is mild. Brass soured with calamine melts more quickly than red copper. The metal that is used to make bells is mixed with some tin, is very sour, and can be quickly melted. The more silver that is mixed in, the quicker it melts, and this is why solders are made with it. In Germany candelabras are made very light because they  rotate by means of water, but they are breakable. A quintal of fine coppersmiths' rosette is sold for 30 or 40 pounds. Another type used by founders is sold for 12 or 15 pounds for a quintal of six pounds of metal.



left_bottom

+ Gold, silver copper

leton iron.

