050v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f106.image



p050v_1

Little Birds

Buntings sing during the night if they are left in the cool open air, but they are better suited to fattening for fine tables than for singing. Chaffinches are prone to blindness, and their eyes swell at the beginning of August. Goldfinches love lettuce seeds, and you can catch them in gardens on seedy lettuce using two lime-twigs. But because such a daily fayre would be too expensive for them, they are usually fed with hemp-seed. The owsell is purged with a spider, which you must give it once a week, so that it doesn't become too strong. The lark is purged with dry mortar, composed of lime and sand, to keep it from becoming too strong and fat. Small young birds are purged with the same dry mortar, by placing small lumps of it in their cages. The cuckoo lays its eggs in the nest of the bunting, otherwise know as verdaule. This bird is very simple-minded, I have previously let two go, which after a few days returned to their cage. To feed young goldfinches, it is necessary to crush almonds with very fine breadcrumbs, and lettuce seeds or hemp seeds. For linnets, some rapeseed.



p050v_2

Hot-worked steel and files

The steel that blacksmiths and other iron workers commonly use is not refined like that from Germany or Biscay, which is hardened in a molten iron bath, but among the iron in bars which is transported by flatboat from the forges of Foix and elsewhere, some is harder, whiter and more refined than the rest, as it comes from the mine. And the workers choose it and use it like the other steel. And because it consists of common iron, they call it strong iron. But it is not of such good quality as purified steel like that from Germany and Biscaye, which is sold in small beads. Some hot-work their steel, giving it a heating and then dipping it into a large quantity of water, then forging it. And fine steel, which is brittle, does break and crumble, whereas iron can be pulled out.  Thus they separate the finest steel, which with another heating they make into a mass. The Germans make their files from strong iron.

 

left-bottomSteel is applied to tools not on both sides, but underneath the part where one sharpens and whets them, and this part must be made of very soft iron.

 

left-bottomLevantines refine our own steel because their country provides them with none, and they reheat it in a pot with bitumen etc.