060r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f125.item





p059v_6

and to prevent it from breaking, mix in a little oil and melt them together and fill the cracks and make them even and paint on them. And the  oil mixed with wax will help colors to hold since they are also distempered with oil.



p060r_1

First whitening of the painting

Apply two or three layers of chalk distempered with glue on the painting, not with a paintbrush but with a large brush as if you intended to rub it down, and leave to dry. And repeat this two or three times, then make the last layer quite even using a knife, then apply a layer of glue upon which you will later be able to put your underlayer and then paint. But make sure that your first white layer is not too thick for it would break easily. Flemish painters have such paintings made by the dozen.



p060r_2

Working neatly

When you are at work make sure you do raise no dust, and when you leave your work cover it so that the said dust will not fall upon it. Also apply your colors as thinly as possible, for if they are thick you will be unable to soften them.



p060r_3

Oil

Nut oil extracted as if from peeled almonds is very white, like Palma christi oil. And when the oil is a little thick the colors are softer, for if the oil is too clear the colors flow and do not bind, even those that are not that thick. Greasy oil that is not easily soaked up is appropriate for varnish. The oil is sufficiently desiccative when it dries as quickly as common varnish. Oils do not dry as quickly in cold countries as in hot countries. Oil left in the sun becomes very clarified but becomes greasy if you add some ceruse or filed lead or white lead or glasspowdered and calcined. To avoid this, put the flask in clear water.

Once oil colors are dry, they sometimes do not easily receive second colors. To avoid this, breathe on them and the color will hold.



left-middle

Do not apply color on color if they are not similar, such as white on black, but rather flesh over flesh, and so on. And leave empty spaces for shadows or different colors. By doing so, laying each sort of color directly on the underlayer, they will not fade and your work will be neat.