064r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f133.image



p064r_1

Working neatly

If you can avoid it, never apply two colors on top of one another. But after making your drawing with great care, keep the shadowed areas separate for themselves and the lights and highlights as well, particularly without smoothly laying a color, then add to this highlighting or shading. And in this way, you further your hard work, spare your colours and work cleanly, which as a result, the colors are not muddled nor mixed together, they do not decay and you soften then  better, thus finding it not so thick.





p064r_6

left-top



Yellow ochre

You need a bit in every flesh tone.





p064r_7

left-center



Softening

One softens in the same way on oil paper as on wood. But it is easier to soften on canvas, because the softening must be coarse there.





p064r_2

Greasy oil

Greasy oil does not work well with colors because it makes them thick, and as difficult to work as azur enamel. Thus use the clearest and freshest walnut oil that you can.





p064r_3

 Vermilion

It must not be kept in water when crushed with oil because it loses its color. It is better to choose whitish vermilion than dark vermilion or or a blackish vermilion. Because vermilion is commonly mixed with a little lake, otherwise it would hardly be different from minium. But the pale one shows more vividly than the dark one. It does not dry by itself, so for that effect one mixes in calcined crystal.





p064_8

left-bottom

 

Eyes

An eye must always follow the circle of the compass and not be flat or square.





p064_4

Oil colors in water

Commonly, after crushing them one puts a piece of tin leaf on top, and one puts them into water to keep them from drying out. But this is more appropriate for white lead, minium and massicot than for the others, for lake fades and loses its color, as does azure vermillion.





p064_5 

Double layer

Verdigris does not fade, and therefore does not need to be applied twice. But lake and others, especially flesh tone, need two layers. Colors hardly change once they are dry.



 