142v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f290.image



p142v_1

Molding grasshoppers and things too thin

 

If you have to mold a piece of written-on paper that is too thin, after you have done the first cast and it has set, give a little thickness to the reverse of your paper with melted butter, which is the most appropriate means there is, &amp; for strengthening the wings of either a butterfly or a grasshopper, or any delicate part of an animal to which you need to give thickness. But take heed to apply this melted butter under the wing or in whichever place it will not be seen.  For giving thickness to a pansy or other flowers, butter is not good, but rather wheat oil, which is soon dry &amp; holds firm.  Wax would not be appropriate here for it is too hot once melted, and it makes the thing to which it is applied contract.  But butter is amiable and handleable.

 

left-topIf you write on paper or on common carton and your letters are made with gum, the moisture of the clay plate (?) or the wet (?) sand for a noyau will moisten your letters and undo them.  Write therefore with cinnabar mixed with oil, on oiled &amp; stamped (?) paper.

left-middle+Reheat your molds with charcoal firstly lit in the forge, so that the fire is not too hot and does not break the molds.  And do not fire as strongly where the mold is thin as where it is thick.





p142v_2

Molds

Make some notches in them the molds that enter more into the inside of the mold than the outside because in this way, they have more strength.  Take care to keep from reheating them suddenly in a burning hot fire, because this will make them break.

right-middleDo not keep them molds in a humid place, nor an enclosed place if they are not well dry, because they will mold.  The same with dried animals.

left-middleIt is not at all necessary to reheat the molds two times when the animal can pull away without burning, as do toads, which can very well be molded hollow like all thick animals. However, it is always good to redden the mold once.





p142v_3

Lute for luting your molds

I have not found a lute that is made more quickly than this one, nor a better one. Take some of the lean earth that artillery founders and bell founders use to make their trusseaulx and molds, which is lean and sandy.  Soak it moderately like a very thick mortar. Mix into it about one half of horse manure and then beat it well.  Afterwards mix in one third of cloth waste or cloth shavings and beat it again quite strongly.  You can reheat your mold as soon as the lute is ready.

