097v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f200.item



p097v_1

Mastic varnish dried a half hour



Some use 2 ℥ of mastic, half ℥ of turpentine and of turpentine oil, and spirits at your discretion since it evaporates when heated and nonetheless makes a more desiccative varnish. But I made it like this: I use turpentine oil, at my discretion, and add very little turpentine, since it remains humid and gets tacky if we add too much, together with some spirits and heat the oil in a varnished bowl and, as it become very hot I add some finely ground mastic and pass one-third of the oil through a sieve and let this heat up until it is melted, which will occur quickly on hot ashes. Once it is all melted, try it on your knife, and if you see that it has too much body add a bit of turpentine oil, and if it does not, add some mastic. And so it is finished, and keep it well covered so that no rubbish gets in. When you want to make this, take care to separate and choose the mastic that is white and pure of any dirt and dust and black dross. And when you wash it and dry it, make it very white and clean and make it even better, because if you don't purge it of these dregs and marks they will be pulverised into it, remain within the varnish, and when you wipe it onto some white or flesh-tinted surface, it will seem as if it were spotted and dirty. Having properly selected, pulverise it in a mortar and pass it through a very fine sieve, and afterward mix it in oil, as stated above. But if you want to make it more carefully, take a drop of mastic, as you know, pulverise, pass it, and mix, and you shall have something very singular for small projects. Be well advised when varnishing to not breathe on it for it will make the varnish white and thick.



left-top

It almost dries as you are working on it.



left

We know that this varnish does not have enough body when it doesn't take well to an oil painting, since it is like water. Add, therefore, powdered mastic and heat it until it is good. This varnish is very white and beautiful not at all like the aspic one.



left-middle

For some, instead of turpentine oil, use some spike lavender oil, which is not as good.



left-middle

This varnish is to be applied cold on the canvas with a very clean fingertip, and spread quickly.



left-middle

The Italians hardly varnish their paintings since they layer their paints very thick and these take a long time to be dry on the inside, even though they have a dry skin and crust on the surface.



left-middle

The varnish is applied with one's finger in order to thinly layer it, because it will yellow afterward.





p097v_2

To work nearby



It is a strange thing that the workers in this craft can only work if they have good breath, for if they have bad breath their work will crack when refired.

