050r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f105.image



p050r_1

Preserving fruit for the entire year

Take a rounded glass phial, with a large enough opening to receive cherries and plums and whatever fruit you want.  Put in some hot water and leave it for two hours, and once your water is cold, throw it out and turn the phial upside down onto its opening on a perfectly even table and in a room where there is not a bit of draft or wind. Then prepare a stopper of fresh wax, wrapped in oilcloth, and adapt it precisely to the glass phial so that it will be ready to stop it once you have put in the fruit.  And once you have hand-picked the fruit, only the non-rotten fruit, and on a warm and dry day, withdraw to the room, well closed so that no wind or draft can get in, and put it gently and deftly in the bottle. Then stop the bottle well with the stopper and lute it, making your lute, if you want, with some quicklime and oil, so that no water gets in. Then put your bottles into a tub full of water, in a cellar, during the summer, and in the winter put your bottles into a basket filled with some weights and lower it to the bottom of a deep well. Because in the winter the water in the tub would be too cold if your cellar is not warm enough, because the water needs to be like river water.



po50r_2

Molding

If you want to quickly mold in demi-relief anything you come upon, fold some paper five or six times over, and place it on the medal and make sure the paper is folded around the edges of the medal so it is very secure. Next take a stick, broad at one end and with a well-dulled point at the other, and rub firmly on the paper, and retrace the lines with the point of the stick until you reckon that your impression is well done. Then, at your convenience, rub oil onto the paper lightly with a brush, and cast some tallow or wax or sulphur into it. And the paper, without burning, will give you a neat design that you can then mold in plaster or tripoli and then in lead and other metals.

 

left-bottomPolished cardboard of little thickness and slightly humid is appropriate. Then if you want, strengthen it with some paper glued on the reverse side.