010r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f25.image



p010r_1

Imitation jasper

Take horn as is used to make lanterns, quite thin, and underneath imitate your jasper, cornaline, and other stones. That will look more appropriate than doing it on glass, which is too shiny. And the horn gives a lustre and a fatty polish similar to jasper.

You know how you can imitate roses with scrapings of the said horn. The colors for this jasper need to have as a base clear turpentine or spike lavender varnish. And matte, opaque colours are not appropriate, no matter how fine they are. You have to oil the unpainted underside with spike lavender oil.

top

Thin glass looks very fine for this effect

left-top

You can inlay beds with it, and on the joints you can throw talc or metal filings on the fresh cement of the said joints. You have to bond them with gum amoniacum soaked in vinegar. To better imitate marbled jasper, apply coarsewool hair dyed various colors and intermingled. After you have laid down all the colors, scrape oblique lines into them then lay downgold and silver leaves. If you lay down colors made of turpentine on the horn, give it a backing of silver or of tin leaf. You can also file horn and mix it with strong glue and lay it down onto the joints of the horn piece and finish with a joiner's plane.





p010r_2

Scudegrun

It is made in Lyon from the juice of weld mixed with chalk or better yet with ceruse, which is appropriate for tempera and oil. 

 



p010r_3

Roses

These are imitated either with the scrapings of horn used for lanterns, or with very light, fine and dyed parchment scrapings, used as you know.

 



p010r_4

Purple color

Painters make it beautifully by first applying an undercoat of ordinary azur, or better yet azure enamel, and then they glaze it with lacquer, which will be more appropriate for this if you mix in alum, which will give it a violet tint depending on the quantity that you mix in.

  



p010r_5



Powder for hourglasses

It must be made very fine and not subject to rust and with enough weight to flow. Taking i lb. of lead, melt it and skim and purify it from its filth, then pour into it four ℥ of finely ground common salt, and take care that there are no stones or earth. And immediately after pouring it, stir continuously very well with an iron tool until the lead and salt are quite incorporated, and take it immediately off the fire, stirring continuously. And if it seems too coarse, grind it on a marble slab and pass it through a fine sieve, then wash it as many as times as necessary until the water runs clear, throwing out the fine powder that will float on it, renewing the water as many times as necessary until it is completely cleared.

