151v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f308.image





p150v_1

However, do not remove it before you have prepared the whole turtle, because you will use this earth as cement, should you need embed something or make repairs with a chisel. If you have some metal overflow at the joints of your mold, you will remove it, either with a burin, called a chaple, or with a very sharp pen-knife, or with a small file followed by the chisel.  Always keeping in front of you the real thing to do as best you can. You can curl on a file a chisel point, which is not at all moistened, to make something lumpy. For these turtles and any other hollow things which you can assume are quite big, create a ligue of half lead and half refined tin. There is more to do when molding a turtle than when molding a dozen flowers.  If there is crocum in your sand, there will be no metal overflow and if you are unfortunate enough that there should be some on the sides, these will be as thin as paper, as long as your mold is very tightly pressed together.  And to make the scales of turtles and other animals, you can make little chisel marks in the shape of round punch cutters, others in the shape of a gouge, or shaped like a snake or lizard scale, and other using a file used to make twisty bits and lumps. Turtles that do not need to be molded hollow are not as much work, because they are molded in two pieces and repair them with little chisels that make punch cutters, little couge, and serrated chisels.



fig_p151v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5bk1US2QxRTVwa2s

left-middle









p151v_1

Wheat oil

 

You must make it between two empty iron blades, the bottom one in particular will be slanted downwards and on this one you will put an even and equal layer of wheat.  Then you will place on it the other blade, which is very hot, and you will press it down until you see the black oil drip. Remove the top blade when you have enough.  This oil dries very quickly.  It gilds silver and varnished things, deepens the color of gilded things, can be used as a varnish on iron before you engrave it, and to varnish the tanned leather parts of sword hilts.  And it could also be used by those who make gilded leather.

left-bottomYou must use this, as has been done recently.  And for things you need to mold, it must not be as thick as for dyeing.



 

left-bottomYou cannot use this to oil hairy animals, because it is too strong and rigid, but it is good to apply to the foot of a little animal, like a fly and other similar things. It is also excellent to dye white stones [illisible]