016v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f38.image





p016r_1

which is usually of 3 pans high. But first of all, you have to reheat your furnace with some big charcoal, so the bottom is red hot and then you will put the said charcoal measure in the middle of which you will put your iron, not at once but ten or fifteen pounds each time. And since it will be swallowed at the furnace bottom, keep putting some more. And add three or four shovels of bigger charcoal and avoid it from getting consumed too quickly by wetting it. And when you will see your furnace full of two quintals of matter, or less if you don't have that much, you will leave the charcoal consume itself. And when the charcoal is almost dying at the furnace's level, you will be able to pour in the moulds and iron or metal shells, which is even better for one metal will bite the other. And the inside of the mold has to be covered with soaked ashes, so it doesn't adhere to it.



p016v_1Against Go{norrhea}

Soak some quince seeds in some clear water and inject this viscous water

p016v_2To take fine forehead hair off

Have a loose silk needle and put it tight through hair bulbs and they will bite the silk like fine cotton wisps.

p016v_3Silk

Crimson silk is more frequent than all the other ones because its colour is not as expensive as blue or green ones which are, also, good bargain for the worker. Black silk is less frequent because it costs a lot.

p016v_a4How to keep oranges

You have to choose them whole and not rotten and then fill a firmly closed  tin vessel with them and they will be fine for six months

p016v_a5Candles

They can be kept in some bran which make them white and last more, according to some. I believe, however, that it is enough to keep them in a cool and dry place, so they are not pressed. It is better if there is a hemp thread inside the wick of the candle to give more light and maintain wick straighter. If it is otherwise all cotton made, as those of Montauban do, it needs to be snuffed out often because if it has been burning for a while, cotton falls down and make the candle drip.

