065v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f136.image

 



p065v_1

 

Mid-bright colors

When colors are absorbed into the canvas, it means that it has been primed only once, and for this reason the colors become matte rather than shiny. But that is best, as long as you retouch it twice, for in this manner, the colors, having more body, will not fade and are much more beautiful, especially azure and lake and those that lack body. But those who want to dispatch their painting carelessly prime twice. Thus the colors will not be absorbed, therefore they will not last as long. The second layer of these colors will not be absorbed and will remain shiny.



 



p065v_6

left-top

Lifelike

There are some who paint lifelike images on oiled paper, and if they do not complete their work in one go, they put their paper and unfinished painting in water so that it will not dry. 



 



p065v_2

Painting large figures

 

You must attach your charcoal to the end of a stick in order to make your first drawing from a distance because up close, you would not be able to judge proportions as well as from a certain and sufficient distance. Also, when you paint up close, hold your charcoal as far as you can, practically with your fingertips. For in that way you will acquire an artist's touch and make your hand light. 

 



left-middle

When painting on paper, illuminators distemper their colors with gum and mix in a little soap to make them run better.



 



p065v_3

Glazing

 

One usually glazes with colors lacking body, such as lake and verdigris. However, in order to use other sorts, one mixes in plenty of calcined and ground crystal, which also has no body and reduces their thickness.

 



left-middle

Painters should all learn how to paint from life, because it is their provision and annuity and means to earn their passage when travelling the land with only their "cocon".





 



p_065v_4

White and black

 

It is useful that an apprentice should work with black and white for two or three years in order to become an artist.



 



p065v_7

left-bottom

Priming

 

You must be quite careful about this, and do not do it, as some will, using gold color made by cleaning the oil brushes, because verdigris and other corrosive colors included will end by fading the colors that are laid in after. It is useful to do it with ceruse, yellow ocher, and a bit of massicot, and make it scarcely thick so that it will not crack.



 



p065v_5

Lead white

 

It does not fade and has a lot of body.

