038r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f81.image



p038r_1

Sapphire

There are sapphires that one calls trellis sapphires, for they are pierced and it is said that a certain king had a certain ornament in the shape of a trellis made out of these, as perhaps the Screen of Charlemagne, as it is named, would be, in the treasure of Saint Denis, in which the gemstones are set without foil, so as to enjoy their luminosity from both sides, &amp; to show their vividness. I have a white one that seems to be rough &amp; pierced, and is all over spotted with blue blemishes; I am of the opinion that these are artificial &amp; made of taffre or very clear azure enamel fused on the sapphire. A file bites into it as it does with beryl.





p038r_2

Saffron

It is imitated &amp; cut with half dried marigold leaves, &amp; twisted like a thread, &amp; placed in the hottest sun to dry, &amp; is mixed, &amp; the aforesaid marigold even gives some color.





p038r_3

Sapphire

Stone cutters sometimes choose old pieces of antique glass in church windows, which are much thicker than those of today &amp; are of more vivid colors. If it is for souf sapphire, they choose beautiful blue &amp; from such a place that there are no pieces grains, if it is possible. And having cut it into squares with emery, they cut it in bevel &amp; polish it. In this manner, they imitate very beautiful sapphires. The old azure enamel for silver, verging on aquamarine, was very suitable for imitating sapphires, but it is scarcely found. Aquamarines are imitated with white glass, but they take it from the bottom of the glass.





p038r_4

Amber

The orange color of transparent amber, and of the other one which has body, is not internal, for it is whitish on the inside. But it acquires this reddish crust with age or through the wearing of it. This is why those who cut it with a file or on the wheel do not remove this crust if it is possible. But rather they only polish it, rubbing it with a willow stick or other soft wood dipped into water &amp; dusted with Brittany tripoli, and it takes a beautiful polish. If it is too straw yellow, &amp; you want to intensify its color, hang it inside a chimney where there is much soot &amp; smoke, and it will take on a reddish-orange color. Try to take the most whitish transparent one, and put it under manure to turn it green, as with bones. Or smoke it in a closed space, in safre or manganese smoke &amp; other drugs that you know of. Or in urine and distilled vinegar mixed with colors, or in the vapor of aqua fortis boiling in copper, or aqua fortis boiling with silver &amp; sal ammoniac; &amp; some cut facets in the amber on a wheel of soft wood with putty instead of emery, &amp; jet also. The salt called de Langlois de armonic is a mineral salt that resembles marble stone and is a very hard mineral with large pieces, like that of Cardona and Monserrat.



left-bottom

I have experienced that it turns reddish on the surface when boiled in lye or corrosive water. And if it is scrubbed with fir and soft wood before cooling down, it is easily cut.

