029r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f63.image



p029r_1

Stucco for molding

Take tragacanth gum and put it to soak until, having absorbed its water, it is swollen and becomes like jelly. Then crush it quite forcefully on the marble and then take rye flour, which is better than wheat [flour] because it is more humid and does not make the paste as rough, and dust your tragacanth gum with it and thus continue to pound and mix in the very finely sieved flour, little by little. And knead as if you wanted to make bread, until you perceive that it has enough body and is as firm as bread dough that is ready for the oven. This is perceptible when it can stretch enough without breaking. And if it is not strong enough, it will not come off [the surface] properly. It being thus prepared, rub the hollow [part of the mold] with oil with a brush, so that the oil penetrates everywhere to make it come off better, and press the paste inside quite forcefully. And if it does not come off well, mix in more flour until it has enough body. With this you will mold very neatly such work, either masks or garlands, as you like, and they will be dry within one day. Afterwards, you apply them with strong glue or paste glue, as you like, and you will be able to paint and furnish them with gold and all colors. In Rome they make floor ornaments with it. You can make bed ornaments with it. If you want that the work remains white, it is better to mold with plaster instead of flour. It is true that it is also more brittle and firm, but it must be prepared like this: mix it while it is a powder in a good amount of water so that it is light-colored and pound it several times a day for fifteen days. Then pour water by inclination, collect the plaster and crush it fine on the marble, and put it in a clean lead vessel, so that no dust or dirt falls into it, and leave it in the open au serain for fifteen days with its water, and it will become matte, strong, white and light, very suitable to become the groundlayer for burnished gold. And you can mix some of this powder instead of flour with tragacanth gum, and your work will be beautiful. Instead of plastre you can mix in well ground chalk or lead white, and try bole armeni and similar things. This stucco with the tragacanth gum has the peculiarity that it is pliable before it is dry, it fits on either round or flat things, as you like. It is to make an ornament at little expense.





left-top

The flour is not good in this, but chalk or lead white [is].



