109v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f224.image





p109r_5

when they want to bite or to eat something, they [snakes] do not go at it head on, but sideways and by sinuous coiling, as do Satan and his henchmen. The snake has a small head, but a very large body; the entryway to sin seems small and inconsequential, but the consequences are great indeed. A snake can abstain from eating for seven or eight days, once he has swallowed a frog, and can swallow three or four frogs, one after the other, and what it has devoured does not rot and is not digested all at once in its stomach, but each part little by little, i.e. the bones and everything. The rest is just as fresh as when the snake ate it, such that when one bothers and torments it, it spits out what it swallowed up, which, in part, is totally digested, with the other part as fresh as if the frog were alive. It can hold a swallowed frog down for two or three hours and spit it out alive.

 p109v_1Toad

If by chance you want to mold this ugly animal and if it should piss in your hand, it will sting your hand and cause it to itch, as if you had been holding nettles. But the very best remedy for this is to put your hand into fresh dirt, and to cover it as if you wanted to bury it. Frogs are not so beautiful when molded because they have shiny skin, and toads have lumpy skin.

left-middleYou can mold the toad hollow, and leaving a notch open on the underbelly, you will make it jump with the twisted cord of the saw. If it is a small, put it on a magnet cut small to the size of the toad, then put it in good vinegar.

right-middleIf it is big, mold hollow, and if you want to mold it with its mouth open, put some cotton therein, and then put some melted wax on the cotton.



p109v_2Killing snakes for molding

Some put a drop of aqua fortis into their mouths, which stupefies them, so that the head and the body look dead. But the head is still alive, and when you stick it with a needle in order to fix it to your mold, it moves and spoils and undoes everything. Therefore, to kill your snake, put it into a bottle filled with good vinegar and some spirits. Do the same with lizards and other similar animals.

left-bottomIf you want to keep them, you can put them in a pipe full of dirt in a garden outdoors, but it is necessary that the pipe be covered with latten wire, because otherwise, the snakes will crawl and climb up quite high.

