120r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f245.image

p120r_1Stamped medals made from wax

You can mold your relief with wax mixed with a bit of resin to make it harder and firmer, whatever relief that you wish, either an animal or a medal.  And then, fashion a hollow out of this relief in brass or copper. Or mold your [wax] in relief and strike it in a sheet of tin.  And fill [your final product] with lead, and heat it. Try [to use] blades of stone leaf to make the hollow for lizards &amp;

p120r_a2Sand for casting gold

Take common sand made of alum, plaster and brick, according to the composition above-mentioned. Add to it some more feather alum. And add as well something a third part of crocum ferri. However whatever quantity is never harmful, because [crocum ferri] is the one that makes gold shiny and makes it come out of its cast easily. But it is best if your crocum has previously been left for three days and three nights in the furnace of glassworkers, in a flat box, where it is not very thick so that it will reheat better.

 

left-topYou can easily cast gold with the common sand of goldsmiths, but [make sure] that you add some substance that makes it runny. Before the invention of crocum, one cast flowers in silver, but not in gold. This has only been known in Germany for forty years.

left-middleSublimate is often used by goldsmiths for gold. Some people add sulphur, but they are all wrong, because sulphur makes things sour, even if it heats [well.], And sublimate gets agitated,boils and bubbles. It is very good to clean gold because its exaltation draws [the bad stuff] out that disappears in the smoke. But to heat up gold, and to keep the heat, there is only the color of verdigris, salt of ammoniacum, saltpeter, and borax. This makes it runny and you will be able to throw in a branch from the Santoinge.

p120r_a3Nightingale

It is necessary for the cage, made like those for larks found in barns and lined with green fabric, to be made with something that slides out from underneath, so that you can refresh the dirt everyday, because the nightingale loves it, and mix in some ants. You can carry an ant-hill with its dirt in a barred full of earth, and keep them there and they will lay their eggs and in this way, you can always have access to them when you need them, should you enjoy feeding nightingales. When you caught it, it was fat and full.  And to keep it in such good shape, on the first day, you must take it in you hand and open its beak and place in it, using a sharp twig, some mutton heart or other delicate flesh, chopped up not too finely, so that the belly does something, and make sure that it does not get smaller or thinner, until it has gotten used to it.  And feed it in this way three or four times a day, and also give it something to drink. The next morning, you will give him in his cage some well-minced flesh mixed with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and change this mixture two or three times a day, because it will not eat it if it is hard and not fresh. And If it goes half a day without eating, you must feed it as before and do so until



