065r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f135.image



p065r_1

Shadows

 Because blacks appear in different hues, some reddish black, others bluish, and others greenish, choose those verging on yellow in order to obtain beautiful shadows in oil, for shadows are yellowish, especially those of men. And for this effect use very strongly crushed jet, which you mix with a bit of yellow ocher and white lead. Or else, after you have crushed your white lead and gathered it with the , crush the jet into it. Thus it the black will be more desiccative, and a yellowish black on its own. When mixed with a bit of white, it will be perfect for men's shadows. Blacks which appear greenish black are appropriate for women's shadows. Take then some black of  , a little sap green and some bistre, and you will have a perfect shading for [flesh tone] in distemper for a woman.



left-top

The powder of orberé grain is duller than umber and when you lack umber, the aforesaid powder may be used, but it lacks body.





p065r_2

Flesh color

You must know how to mix the colors and the appropriate shadows well, but above all make sure to soften them well. And note and observe that an object that appears flat needs to be softened in straight lines, such as from right to left like 



fig_p065r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5eUhrRmdpaWNCZlk



, and whatever needs to be represented round must be softened in circles.



left-middle

One cannot lay down oil on cut paper or make a stencil as in distemper because the colour will run. Thus, in order to gild with matte gold, one has to pounce and then lay in the colors with the brush.





p065r_3  

Mirror

When you paint flesh, it is useful to have a crystal mirror, which represents a lifelike image, and in which you will see if your shadows are soft enough or too crude. But do not look at it using a candle, because the light of the flame will make the shadows look reddish. The painter also learns for himself with a mirror, because he sees in it what a lifelike image can produce.





p065r_4

Greasy colors

After the laid-down colors are absorbed, if some part remains shiny and does not seem dry, it means that this part is greasy, and that the second colors you lay down would not adhere either, unless you scrub this part with soap or breathe on it, because humidity will make the colors adhere.



left-bottom

All greasy colors, such as ceruse, minium, massicot, ochre, and white lead are good for making gold color.

 

left-bottom

Any color or thing that thickens when mixed with water, while being crushed has body. But those that lack it, such as crushed glass and lake etc., become clear.

