109r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f223.image



p109r_1

Working in rough with wax

When the wax is too hard, one mixes in some turpentine or a bit of butter, which renders the wax malleable, and cleaner than tallow, which the Italians mix in, because oftentimes, it is necessary to put the tools into the mouth, tools which are better when made from box wood or antler.





p109r_2

 

Wax for molding

Since the wax is molten, they have some sulphur in a spoon or crucible and pour it in the molten wax. And with the sulphur going to the bottom or staying on top, it stays where it is and mixes only its substance in the wax, and renders it more meltable when warming it, in such a way that having molded it, the wax gently melts in the mold like butter, without leaving any blister or boil.  Also be warned to not give it too much heat.

left-topIf





p109r_3

Molding wax

So that your mold takes hold without repelling any surface on a form or figure in wax, it is necessary to rub the wax with oil and soak your sand in lukewarm water, because cold water repels oil even more and will not make a good layer on the wax.

left-middleRub the oil on very very lightly, use so little that it hardly appears at all. Then rub with some spirits. After soak your sand in lukewarm water so that it does not repel the oil.



p109r_4

Forge bellows

It is better that at the end with the air chamber the bellows be set in some kind of bit of cloven board because they are more secure this way. Afterwards you can lightly secure them from the top.  It is necessary that the nozzles be four fingers above the bottom of the forge.



p109r_5

Molding snakes

When you get them for molding, if it is possible, do not remove their teeth if you [think you might] want to keep them, because having had their teeth removed, it hurts their gums and mouths, and they can no longer eat.  You can keep [the snakes] in a barrel full of bran or even better of earth, in a cool place, or in a glass bottle.  And give them some live frog or other live animal because they do not eat anything that is dead. Also I have noticed that



