081r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f167.image

p081r_a1Sand

Some excellent [sand] is found for use with lead, tin and copper close to the hill of Pech-David, close to Toulouse. It should not be reheated much because drying out  suddenly, it will lose its binding [properties] and retract [?] at the first inflow of metal, which makes the work become rough and unclean. It is much better to reheat it from a distance, instead of with a straw flame, which generates  grime. Instead of filling the frame, you can use finer sand which you will have in a very thin cloth, and polish the medal and then the wet sand that you will put over it, which has more body, will grip it.

left-topTallow makes things fill with bubbles

left-topMercury stops the burning when one wants to cast. Allow the metal lead to flow, but if it is pure, it needs to be cast quite hot so it flows and vents.

p081r_a2Earth for moulding

Sheath maker's earth or the one potters use to blanche  the pots to make the lead flow better on it and to prevent the lead from soaking into them is very good to cast the hollow parts of what you want in relief. It releases better than plaster or sulphur which become hard once they have grasped on [to the mould] because earth sticks. It needs to be beaten vigorously so that it does not break. If the piece you want to mould is very large you can mould different parts separately. If you reheat it, it must be over a closed fire. One finds this earth at Le Fousseret, and in another place called Ox.

p081r_a3Plaster

It needs to be well cooked, which you will recognize when cooking it in an iron or metal casket. Mix it with an iron rod and if it sticks to the iron, it is not cooked enough, and if it doesn't then it is ready. The water with which you soak it has to be a little warm and the mould of the above mentioned earth or other, also should be a little hot.  The plaster work does not last and the faces and delicate things break if one does not use glue.

p081r_a4Carton

It is necessary to take paper from Florence, which is the finest, and crush it and and soak it several times and change the water every day, that way it does not smell bad. And after having moulded it into the hollow, put a cloth over it, and from the back side, rub the back of your paper with a sharp piece, as if you wanted to polish it and it will mould very neat. Then glue some cloth from the back side with strong glue. 

