037v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f80.image



p037v_1

Gardener



To sow melons properly, it must be the end of a moon [cycle], because otherwise they would sprout too many leaves and not bear much fruit. Every two fingers, make small holes with a small pickaxe and, in each, put two or three seeds. Then, take very fine earth and lightly fill the holes with it. Afterwards, spread the thickness of one thumb of 'hanets,' that is wheat chaff, over everything, so that when the rain comes, it does not beat the earth and prevent their birth. 'Hanets' attract field mice that eat the seeds, and to prevent this, they must be moistened with a decoction of wormwood.







p037v_2

Glass-maker



Some do not lay gris d'escaille on the glass to work on it, but trace straight on the glass with noir à huile. However, it is important that the wood be degreased, because if it has even a little grease [on it], the color will not take at all. And even, if the working glass-maker has a stink from his nose or his mouth, and he breathes on the glass, the color will not take on it. Those who came up with the invention of working in small works of softened enamels use only azure enamel, which is blue, and esmail colombin, which is the color of purple, which they soften with rocks or lead glass. As for yellow, they make it from silver, red from sanguine, as is said elsewhere, black and gray and shadows from scale black, either strong or weak, carnation from light sanguine. Green is made first from yellow, then they overlay azure enamel, either strong or weak, depending on whether they want to make it bright or dark.







p037v_3

Yellow Amber



It is carved with a file, then one passes a certain pulverized salt on it, which an Englishman called desramonct. But I believe that this was pulverized pumice stone, because it had as much grit as gravel. And with a stretched cord, he polished his amber, then passed tripoli from Bretagne on it with his finger, others [did it] with leather or a cane. Amber loses its color if a person in ill health wears it, and becomes whitish. But to get it back, it must be soaked for a night in urine, then boiled a little in it.



