084r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f173.image

p084r_a1Impromptu mask

Mold some paper and put it on the face of somebody who is making an ugly grimace, let it dry, then take your pattern to paint

 # and liftings. It is necessary that it not be too wet for the aforementioned reasons. Reheat little by little, and if you left it out to dry slowly in some dry place without any high heat after molding it, it would work better, since if you expose it all of a sudden to high heat, it warps. I think it would be very convenient to reheat it in the mouth of the oven after you take bread out of it. One should not complain about the difficulty of preparing it; it can take as many castings as you wish, because it becomes as hard as marble, you can polish it, and the mold cannot be ruined. Having used it, crush and sift it again, without making a special effort to crush it very finely, since, when sifted through a common sieve, it is stronger and strips better than when it is very fine.

p084r_a3Magistry

Dissolve rock salt or sandever that you have pulverized finely and placed on a marble slab in a pot. It will dry out while you reheat the mold, and will provide it with a binding to enable several castings. Try moistening it with tartar oil. 

p084r_a4Flour

Ground during Advent lasts the whole year.

 

p084r_a5Sand from a Toulousain mine

Toulousain sand, which is harvested from the Côteau du Puy-David, deep down in the earth, is excellent on its own, but to make it sustain multiple castings, I mix it with pulverized and moistened sandever, which hardens it, holds well together with it, and enables as many castings as you like. Try to moisten the crushed glass and other sands with the essences of the aforementioned salts. Like all natural sand, it needs to be reheated well. Before putting it to use, one pulverises it, because it is in a lump, and then one reheats it in a copper boiler (or similar) until it ceases to smoke.

left-bottomIt is necessary to reheat it before using it. It becomes better for casting because it is reheated, but when it has been used too much, it must be refreshed with new sand.

