057r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f119.image





p056v_1



Lake takes a long time to dry in oil and for that reason you have to crush glass with it, but you have to choose crystallin because it is neater. And since it would be too difficult to be crushed by itself, you have to heat it red hot, then, when it is entirely red, throw it into cold water and it will crumble and pulverize itself to then  be crushed easily. After being crushed with a lot of water, it looks like crushed lead white, but for this reason it has no body. I think it could be good for casting.



Lead white is made with lead sheets beaten gently and put under some manure.



White turpentine varnish or aspic oil and turpentine is colored with powdered turmeric boiled together with it. It gives a gold color on silver which is even more beautiful when burnished. It dries within a quarter of an hour. Aloes would made an even brighter color but it takes time to dry whereas the other one dries within a quarter of an hour in winter as well as in summer.



Good lake moistened with saliva quickly darkens. That from Florence is mixed with too much gum.



If you apply one layer of printers' ink on velvet and apply gold leaves and then stretch it, it looks grainy as if it was powdered with gold sprinkled on it.



Vermillion crushed by itself is wan and pale but is more beautiful when it is crushed with lake.

In order to remove the grease off marbles, one crushes ordinary ashes on it, which afterward are good to make the first primer coat of a painting to be done in oil in order to seal the cracks and veins of the wood. They are thicker than chalk and are quite greasy. They are mingled with the aforesaid chalk or with colors collected from the vessel that is used to clean brushes, and they are desiccative and spare the colors. Once this primer coat has been made on the wood, it is scrubbed with a knife until even. After, one makes a second coat with ceruse or with the poorest colors mixed together. On an oil canvas painting one only applies one coat and the mixed ashes can be used. Also, after crushing a color, one crushes the interior of a large loaf of bread in order to remove the grease off the marble.

