070r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b20500001g/f145.image





p069r_2

Once you have molded, it is good to reheat your mold with the smoke of the material you are melting, because the cast would absorb the quality of the metal, then this metal will flow more easily in something that takes after itself.

 

The human bones are the best for casting when they are calcined.

Your material needs to be quite hot in order to cast clean. To achieve this, when your material is melted, add some iron shavings, or iron filings, or [iron in other form], because it heats copper very much and it cleans it of its fat.  At the end, when you want to cast, add some saltpeter, and place your preparation between a folded sheet of paper in order to hide the composition of your mix, to keep it secret.

Sheep foot bones are even better than the ox foot bones.

Oil and tallow make fill with bubbles, and crushed glass and copper alone.

Ashy soil molds very well.

Ashes don't have enough body to hold copper.

It is better not to mix [different types of] sand at all, but to fill the chassis with one type [sand] only.

Brass is always fat, and does not mold very clean. It is believed that it turns out better being alloyed with a quarter copper, but it must be cast very hot.

Copper is good mixed with a bit of metal. If you mix metal with brass, it will be harder and more difficult [to handle].

A slightly coarse sand has more body.

 

Rock's sand is always better, because it looks like tuff in small pieces which has a beautiful and very fine grain, a bit fat. Grind it, then dry it in a frying pan on the fire, until it stops smoking. Then filter it through a fine double sieve and use it to mold.

 

left-middleCopper or brass cannot come out well if the medal does not sufficient thickness and if it does not have it, give it some with some wax.

left-middleSome mold through a hole done in the middle of the reverse side of the medal.

left-middleSome want to mold large works in brass mixed in the sand some ground glass to give the soil unity. But it makes it filled with bubbles. And you have to repair the work.

left-bottomOne puts a good amount of lead within a large work to make it flow, but not in a small one because it leaves grime all around the work.



