029v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f64.item



p029v_1

Color of gold without gold on silver

Color your applied silver leaf with some terra emerita and once dry, spread a handful of varnish of aspic and sandarac and it will be more beautiful than fine gold.



p029v_2

Brown gold layer on paper

Prepare your underlayer of starch soaked in water and your gold will turn brown very well. Clear starch water laid down on paper, then dried, and so by three times, is a good base for brown gold on paper and is not thick.



p029v_3

Removing stains

A good eau de vie takes it off if you rub your cloth with it.



p029v_4

Layer of gold

Ground terra emerita with some saffron, altogether mixed with some strong very white glue and sieved through a cloth.



p029v_5

Oil extracts

Apothecaries say that anything with does not stick to a mortar while ground is oleaginous.



p029v_6

Dragon's blood

Have a well chosen drop of it which shows its transparent red and put it in a glass bottle with enough quantity of the best eau de vie possible and close it diligently so it does not  get exposed to air otherwise it will be worth nothing and leave it so for a long time, because the longer it stays, the more beautiful and better it will be and it will dissolve if it is good otherwise it will become like lees. When you want to use some, make a small hole in the bottle stopper and pour some and close it again each time and apply it on gold. Good dragon's blood can be found in grands lopins like cattle cakethis one has no worth if it is sophisticated and broken it shows on its edges some transparent scale as light red enamel, it is also lumpy in some points like small rubies. The eau de vie must be very strong and plusieurs passes.

 



left-bottom

The darker dragon's blood is the best and the larme is the most dying one, which you can find in lapin like pitch and big nuts which look like



fig_p029v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5cXJfWVlSSGlKOGs

right-bottom





 



left-bottom

I put it in some ordinary eau de vie, adding some aqua fortis to give it strength. At the beginning the water turned slightly colored, but at the end it just looked like some tragacanth gum with which they sophisticate I think the dragon's blood.



left-bottom

When it is applied on gold, it is prone to break, this is why some apply on it some turpentine oil. Cold stops the water from pouring and taking the color off. And for that, you can hold it by the fire.