033r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f71.image 



p033r_1

Knife to cut a nose or a finger



fig_p033r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5RWlDQlc4cU5HN3M



This is a well-furbished knife, assembled with a nail in the middle so that it can easily swivel to one side or the other and be hidden, alternately on side A or on side B, inside its handle marked C. The two stops you see on the tips of the knife are used to block it on one side or the other against a nail which is at the butt of the aforesaid handle, so that when one wants to press hard on something in order to cut it, it does not move from the handle. You might as well allow the side marked B to cut, only not during your performance, but the side that is notched and marked A must not be sharp, it should only be furbished. And the notch must also be as wide as the edge of a knife so that it cannot hurt. And you will only show the part where the knife is not notched, for the side with the notch must be hidden inside the handle. And when you want to cut a nose or a finger, pretend to sharpen your knife on your thigh and at the same time turn it deftly, and the part with the notch, which you will cover with one finger, will come into your hand, and you will place the notch, colored with brazilwood rosette or black cherry juice, upon the nose.





left-middle

The conjuror must not amuse himself by watching what he is doing, but must look at the spectators while entertaining them with hocus-pocus words to make them look at his face and not his hands.



p033r_2

To relight an extinguished candle in your hands without blowing

 

fig_p033r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5SFNtME0xWURubzA

left-bottom



Take a twig of well dried wicker and cut a small piece like a toothpick, and put one of its ends between your index and middle fingers and clasp both your hands together, fingers well joined, and move them deftly around the lit candle as if you wanted to cover it, and your wicker will light. And instantly remove your hands thus clasped, and instantly put out the candle. And then put your hands around it again as if you wanted to cover it, together with your little light from the glowing wicker. By means of the smoke that you are holding in your two palms, the candle will light. And then instantly extinguish your wicker and secretly discard it.

