115r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f235.image



left-topFirst cast the tail or the back of your animal, make a cut from the head to the middle to the tail where you cast, and which is the end of the mandore. After casting do not forget to make holes, and to notch your casted metal. That way metal will run better than if do not notch it.  Indeed metal get damaged into notches, do not run too much and does not swell as much as if you do not make any notch. Put small clamps made of wire to the joints separating both molds it will reinforce the joints of your mold. Clamps prevent molds from distorting and from getting damaged while heating.



p115r_1Note about everything above said

If your snake hasn't eaten for a long time, when you want to kill it into urine and vinegar, it would fill with water and would swell, and then it would dry when you fix it on clay.

Once casted, and removed out of the mold, you could see a small empty line between the animal and the mold where sand will come in when you make the second cast. Try to avoid that if you can, but do not give up  your second casting because not much sand comes in this empty space and it will be easy to clear it with the help of a small needle, also this sand does not stick to the first cast.

 

Casts which must be reheated, like casts for gold or silver, or other matters which must be burnt inside the mold, need more stone alum than casts which are stripped of the mold easily, like lead and tin. However do not add too much stone alum.

 

p115r_a2Stripping animal

If you'd made such a twist to your snake that you can not stripped its belly easily of the mold, and if the head and the mouth are thinner, and easier to be removed, do cut away the extra parts  of the mold, and do reheat the mold again. The matter inside will burn, then add some quicksilver inside which will attract ashes and burnt bones, the pipe will get wider, and your animal will get easily out of the mold without being damaged. You can strongly pull your molded snake, because it is soft and malleable, and your mold firm enough to keep its print undamaged.

 

p115r_a3Reheating molds

When  your molds are reheated, and cleaned, cast as soon as possible, because if you keep your molds it will corrode and become damp. Reheat the thickest part, where  the body of the animal is, on high position because if there is something to be burnt inside it will fall down. Mark the high part in order to recognize it.

Once well reheated, do not damp the outside of your mold too much because the inside must stay red when you cast.

left-bottomIt is the shape of the clamp





