165v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f336.image

p165v_1Positioning animals

Not only with iron pins, but also with melted wax, are animals secured to the plate of earth. Wash them first in clear water, after they have died in the mixture of vinegar and urine. And with a sponge clean off their mouth, eyes and head of the froth coming out, because the sand would never set well there and would become lumpy.

left-topIf you want to keep their mouths open, insert a little bit of harpsichord string, which will not take up much space.

 

p165v_2Keeping animals

Having molded them once, if you want to keep them for molding again, put them back into the mixture of urine, vinegar and spirits where you killed the others, and they will keep for a long time without decaying. If you have a cut on your hand, take care that this mixture does not touch it.

p165v_3Molds

After molding them do not keep them for long, but use them as soon as you can, because when kept for a long time, they are prone to spoiling.

 

When your molds are reheated, the thing comes out better.

 

p165v_4Lute

When reheating, you might as well use common lute, But when you want to cast, strip it from the mold and, using a brush, quickly apply a layer of plaster lute that has been used for molds, because it will be dry as soon as it settles, and cast. This lute should be mainly placed on the joints.

 

p165v_a5Silver

When it quivers after melting, that is a sign that it is very hot. And since it commonly contains much lead, it is good to throw in some lime mortar because that attracts and gathers in the lead.

 

p165v_a6Fly wings

So that they come out best, place wax sprues from the gate up to the tips of the wings. Also make sure there is enough wax under the belly, because that is what makes the cast succeed.



fig_p165v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5UmhqY1RkWFRhYzg

left-middle



 

p165v_a7Attaching a fly wing or something similar

They can be attached with fish glue mixed with spirits over slow heat, heating also the work. Then that is covered with wax "à ébaucher", that should be grey.

