137v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f280.image

p137v_a1Wetting sand to mold flat medals

Flat medals, made of wax or metal, must be oiled very lightly and then touched with a brush of spirits.  So that the already moistened mold takes well the oiled thing without rejecting it, one warms the water well in order to wet the sand, because with cold water it would be rejected.  It is necessary to oil medals, because they do not expand and in this way would break the mold. Animals, which expand, do not need oiling. The hot water much be of such a heat that you cannot keep your figure in it without it becoming too warm. Wet the thickest sand for flat and solid medals rather than [for] lizards and finer things. Once your sand has set, clean and scrape your mold on one side and the other, and on the bottom edge of the thrown side of the medal, make a notch so that it is easier to take out.  Lower the mold, scraping what surrounds the medal, so that on all sides you can take it out easily without it damaging the mold.  Then make some gashes around the first mold used to throw so that the second time that you throw in it, it will be identical to the first one, and in the same way, make a notch at the bottom of the mold, where the held of the item cast lies. Also make some [gashes] in the sides of the cast. This done, wet the back of the first mold in oiled water, and after the second casting moisten it with warm water if you have molded your medal in a noyau mold.  Having done the first cast, and this one having set, cut around the edge of the medal with the point of a knife so that it comes out of the throw and is not buried in it.  Then having made the second cast, and having opened your mold, take away the medal in one go, with two knife points, one on the side of the cast object and one on the side of the head, which is at the opposite end.

left-middleTake care not to oil your medal too much because if the seeps out, it prevents the sand from serving its purpose and coming together and renders it wavy and lumpy. You must only touch the middle of the medal with the tip of your oil brush and then smear the oil everywhere.

 

left-bottom

Make especially sure that the throw is as wide as you can on the medal and holds it together well. The gate of your cast must always be big and always narrowing as you go towards the medal. Also do not forget to notch the gate of your cast.



