056v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b9059316c/f118.item



p056v_1

To paint

The lacquer and rosette from Ghent and elsewhere lose their color and die in contact with the air.

Any marble on which a knife can [illegible] is not worth to grind fine colors.

The chalk is not thick with oil, the ceruse is more appropriate but even better is the white lead. The ceruse is the whitest and is to grind firstly with some water, the white lead is grayish. But turns perfectly white with some oil.

When you grind your colors, start by cleaning your workshop because if you raise some dust while walking that will damage your colors which will never be beautiful if they are not clean.

The Florey must not be mingled with some azur enamel or anything else for it turns it into green.

Ivory is excellent to make a painter's' palette Knots of the fir tree The pear-tree and if it is walnut tree make sure to cut with the grain of the wood.

You always have to stamp on wood to oil paint in order to fill holes and unevenness. And stamp with some [illegible] and ceruse mixed with oil, then soften with a feather which evens more than a brush. Or when the stamp is dry, rub it strongly off with a knife.

To use some azur enamel with some oil, you have to choose the finest one and to make it thinner, do not grind for it turns white but wash it and because the bigger goes at the bottom, choose the one at the top of the water or pour the cloudy water out and pile the azur.

  



left-top

Someone who operates with oil will not work properly with distemper if he has not been trained well during his youth. The manner of working is indeed very different because the brush point always has to be moisten for working with distemper. While when one cleans the brush in some oil to soften it, one should dry it well. Otherwise the work would drip and soon be damaged.



left-middle

The Italians hatch with a flatten rough brush which makes some serration.



left-middle

And do not apply their shades at once like the Flemish but apply them by hatching from the lighter towards the light then a darker and then an even darker to make more contrast.



left-bottom

With distemper do not mingle your various colors together for they will die but use each separately and in order to stop them from drying and to have time to soften, moisten the back of the canvas.



