024v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f54.image



p024v_1

To bring a canon over land

 



It requires a hundred roadworkers or more to even gap tracks and others obstacles such as trees, stone piles and similar things to make gabions on the road. Once one is close to the battlefield, the gunner goes at night to locate the most convenient place to display the battery and if he does find one, a false alarm should be raised so the ones inside throw torches. Very often, 

you shoot as strong as possible so the assailed despising the battery do not fix it. Usually, there are not many gun-turrets or other defenses. And when a breach is made at the strongest and the cannon replaced, it will surprise the assailed. One should approach fortified towns at night, but  [illegible]. The workers bring gabions and once these are displayed, some boards or plank are put behind gabions to keep the workers safe while behind, they fill the gabions with some earth by means of their shovels. And while this is being performed, another false alarm is raised from another side. And once you have shot a cannon ball at the defense, the gabions the workers display the boards to make a plain ground or a platform of four fingers or half a foot thick. And they are set into the earth. The platform is five or six feet larger than the cannon's wheels on each side if there is just one cannon. But if there are more, platformes are side by side. The space between the pieces is equivalent to the width of two gabions. As long as the battery lasts, gunners sleep and eat close to a cannon. In small spaces, one does not bother to dig trenches to reach the pieces but display many high gabions and run towards them. In large places one digs trenches. There are always in trenches or behind barricades units on guard duty to defend the pieces. A small powder container is kept containing three or four separate cags.



left-top

You have to know the French containers for the artillery.



left-top

It is good if the platform is slightly oriented upwards because the piece is more quickly put in action [&amp; tient plus coup] and hits harder.







p024v_2

left-top

Lined cannons

are those with a lining in the powder container space. The bullet rolls only up to the opening of this chamber. These ones are not so efficient and are not easy to load but they do not light up so quickly.



p024v_3

left-middle

Steel touch-hole

is to be put as an anchor in the canons so it will not be damaged during the shooting unlike the others very quickly did. But these anchors are prone to jump off and injure the canonner. The only thing is to use an appropriate touch-hole.



p024v_4

left-middle

A touch-hole atthe bottom level is the best. That way the cannon does not come backwards.