116r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f237.image



p116r_1

Casting plants and flower bouquets

 

One must cast them as soon as they are picked because they wilt and dry out. Dunk them, therefore, right away in good spirits and then put them in your sand mold, soaked like snakes. There is nothing to be released from the molds because while the molds are heating up, the plant material burns away, which does not happen with animals, which have bones. For bouquets, the sand must be finer than for snakes because, if it were thick, it would crush the flower.





left-top 



fig_p116r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5SEdPVDdsS2dEUmM

 

 burn the plants, flowers, and animal parts that are remaining. Afterward, they must be cleaned and the cinder removed. Then reheat them until they are red for casting. Reheat in the beginning with some charcoal lit over a gentle fire, and put your core molds down flat on the charcoal encircled by bricks. Molding frames are reheated on a grate.







p116r_2

Core molding the same sand for wax images, lead medals, and similar things

Make sure that these are well emptied. If they are not, fill them with wax, which will not be it, and then smear your wax or lead images with a very thin and light layer of olive oil in such a way that the oil does not give any thickness or body to the medal. Then heat it with a little spirits and, when it is lukewarm, wet the oiled medal, because if the water is cold, it will resist the oil. It will not hold on to it. After, cast your plaster sand,matton, and alum. Wet it on top having placed your image on clay mold in the shape of a mandore and having given it some contour to give the necessary thickness. These medals oil and rub against themselves in this way with the spirits because they are firm and hard, and they would not ready to be taken out of the mold, which is resistant like real animals, which are soft and flexible.

 



left-middle 

When you have soaked your sand, do not cast on the middle of the mold, but on the edge so that the sand gently settles, so that the first cement be clear and thick afterwards. If your soaked sand sizzles like water falling in a mold, it is a sign that it is too light. Make it, then, of an average thickness. 







p116r_3 

Casting gold and silver

 

The molds must be fire-red and ablaze when you cast gold or silver in them, or when you burn flowers and bouquets. The gate must not be very big where the thing being cast enters because the matter will flow better without disturbing the mold, and does not become so filled with bubbles. 







p116r_4

A way to enamel very fine gold rose leaves and others

 

After you have cast or beaten in gold the thin rose leaves or other things, if you want to enamel them, you must solder or braze your fine gold leaves onto silver strips, which will strengthen them to support the enamel. After the things has been enameled, put the work in aqua fortis, which will eat away the silver and leave all the gold with its enamel. For this, the gold must have been passed…



