114r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f233.image



p114r_1

Second Casting

When you have well molded the first part of the animal, that is to say the back, the spine, and the entire top part, and when the half-mold where the part is encased is hard enough 

fig_114r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5SWVndzB0aEk5MWs

 turn over the bottom and the sides of the belly, sometimes using a knife for the thicker parts, and then with a pen-knife for the places where the more fragile parts are encased, like legs, tail, and similar things. Because the head is higher, you will have to dig deeper to expose it and do a deeper notch that has to be well exposed, by enlarging it from the outside, in order for the second mold that you cast on top of it releases well. A process for which the animal himself can be useful because his nature so permits. However, make sure that you reveal the lizard's throat more than you would do a snake, because the lizard has big jaws and big bones that do not cast as easily, and has deep ears in which the wet sand is not as easy to remove. But you will avoid all of this if you expose half of the head and those things that you know do not release easily. When everything is well exposed, blow over it and wipe each part again with a cloth made of swine hair, slightly dampened into salt water or clear water, do that gently, that way the lower part of your uncovered animal will be very neat. # 🝋 Once it is done, dip the covered side of your mold into water for a pater noster. It will suck water inside, that way when you'll rub with oil the uncovered side, the oil will remain on the top, and to prevent the second cast which you will cast on top from sticking. Dip your mold into water, take a particularly fine brush and rub with oil the entire mold but the animal; it should not be touched with oil. Make sure to use you brush between the parts and on all the fragile parts. And if by mistake oil is soaked, dip the mold into water, as it is said above, and drop by drop the oil will come back to the top.



left-top

Mold small animals as big ones, however, for small animals, use very fine tacks made of cords of cittern, short and long ones.

 



left-top



fig_p114r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5NVR5Y2FtZHM0ck0



remove all the little tacks with the help of very small flat pincers.



left-top

#

then

+illegible



left-bottom

#However, leave the tack which is pinned into the throat so that it will help you to turn the head over, because it is sunk deeper than any other part, because when you drew the plan, you put higher up. It is at the level of the head that you must make the biggest notch and you should start at that notch to expose and then keep following by looking at the traces left by the tacks. 

# and if a small piece of nail, or piece of tail, or other fine things separate from the mold, put a little piece of waxbetween them, and join them with the tip of a hot iron wire, then smooth it in your mold with a knife, and make notches on the sides in order for the other half of the mold to adhere to it. 🝋



fig_p114r_6

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5TTRuWU8yVktnc3M







