111v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f228.image



p111v_1

sal ammoniac water

It is enough to use two chestnuts' worth of sal ammoniac pulverized in a pot of water, and that the water tastes lightly salted to your tongue, because too much is not good.

p111v_2

Sanguine

To clean the various colors of lead and tin, sanguine is pulverized, and it is rubbed on the molded work with pieces of fabric.

p111v_3

Crab and crayfish



They are among the most difficult to mold, and whoever molds them well will mold many other very subtle things.

p111v_4

Lizards

When one grabs them with two fingers from the sides of the head, at the level of the ears, one makes them open their mouth with the tip of the fingernail, then one grabs the edge of their lower jaw, and then [the edge] of the upper one. He squeezes the fingernail like a pair of pincers, but he cannot go through it, but he squeezes it quite hard; and if he bit the flesh, he would never let go of his hold, and there would be no better remedy than to cut off his head promptly. In the spring, as they have shed their skin, they are better-looking.



left-middle

The small lizards that one catches in the summer, the size of small female lizards, grey on the back and green on the belly, are very appropriate to cast in silver, gold, or other metal, because their scales are rougher than those of female lizards and show better.







p111v_5

Composition of sand

Everything being baked thoroughly as said above, take four 4 molds full of plaster, two 2 of brick, and one of alum de plume. Do not pass through the sieve to mix, because the alum would not go through. Mix it with your hands until neither one nor the other, neither white nor red, may be distinguished from the other. If your plaster is not strong, do not mix in as much alum de plume because it softens molds. Make sure too that your sand is not hot (since it has been baked thoroughly recently) when you will want to mix it with water, because that makes molds too soft and breakable.



 



left-bottom

You may sometimes decrease the quantity of plaster if you do not find it strong enough to resist fire and if it splits, so that the proportion of crushed tiles sustains it, with the alum de plume, which you can also increase so that it creates a better bond.

