096v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f198.image

p096v_a1Grey hilts

When they are white, it is necessary only to clean them well, and then to heat them over a fire, and make them turn blue. And take good care that they do not turn too blue, since neither gold nor silver nor any color would set. To accomplish this, which is called les faire passer, have a caldron full of ashes that you cover with some blazing hot charcoal, and heat the ashes thus very well, for an hour or two. And when the ashes are very hot, put the charcoal aside and put the hilt where the charcoal was, and cover it completely with ashes. And when the body, which is the main part of the hilt, is completely colored, flip it onto the other side. In that way, the grey cannot color it too dark, unless some hot coal touches it. Greying can be achieved in an ordinary fireplace, too, but there is a danger that it may sit there too long and make a crust which which will prevent the color from setting. Blue coloring is obtained as soon as the ashes have heated the hilts a little bit, but it will always be grey on some sides. After blue comes grey.

 

p096v_a2Color of water

For the color of water, pass a soft file on the hilts to whiten them, then the burnisher. Afterwards, you color them blue until they become grey. Next, when they are still slightly hot, pass bloodstone over them, and, as they cool, one turns them to reheat them, since the color of water is achieved only after doing this a few times. And if hilts weren't warm, the bloodstone would scrape them and undo the color. Pay attention that hilts don't become too grey, since they would give off soot that would prevent the color from setting. Almost one day is necessary to prepare, soften, and set the color of water, but as soon as they turn a little blue, it is enough for grey or other colors. Grey is the lesser color, after varnish made of two colors, either yellow or black.

p096v_a3Yellow varnish

One should vigorously whiten and clean the hilts well. After that, with a feather, one coats them entirely, when they are cold, with nut olive oil. Then, turn them over a good charcoal fire  like that of the furbishers' furnace without letting them touch the charcoal or ashes. And when they stop smoking, it is done.

