082v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b9059316c/f170.item



p082v_1

Watchmakers

Formerly, they dipping their springs by immersing them into molten lead. Today they dip their straight springs, and afterwards bend them, which is a beautiful secret.





p082v_2  

Casting lead in lead

Some make their caves with lead, they make them thick, and then cast lead in it.

Lead that is not cast hot enough is white, and darker when cast very hot.



left-top

One can make lead molds and, to cast, smoke it with soot black. But that is never very neat.



left-top

Lead never comes as neat as tin.





p082v_3

Sand

If sand is too fat it should be reheated and sifted again.





p082v_4

Ways of bronze casting

Laiton de potin, which is the most acid, moulds neater than latten of cassole according to many people. All fine latten molds cleaner than red copper. If you want to cast something fragile and tenuous, the secret is casting as hot as possible so that the matter boils. You will know that it is hot enough when it smokes a lot and stirring it makes sparks. For heating well you should place your crucible as low as possible, close to the forging mill, so that the bellows blow on the middle of the crucible, thus it heats better than on the grate on which we usuallyput the crucible, under which the bellows blow. It is true that the crucible can easily break but you can lute it as you know founders do.  You need to keep feeding the firewith coals, which are between the bellows and the crucible. Make sure to cast all at once and not in increments or drop by drop, otherwise the conduit will be plugged by the matter. It is better to make an abreveoir to abreuver  the medal. It is necessary that you stir the melted matter with a stick, so that the matter at the bottom heats well. Because Iron turns the matter acid. Turn



left-middle

Some people add wool stuffing to heat up and make it runny.



left-bottom 

Place one large iron slab under your crucible, the plate will redden and  this will maintain the heat under your crucible.

 



left-bottom

Copper matter is good to cast because when broken, its grain is long and not short, that shows that the matter is soft. The matter is composed half of fine latten and half of red copper. This long grain is called longue tige long rod.

