083v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f172.item

 p083v_a1

Excellent type of molding with water



Dissolve some laxunge de verre in a moist place and then pour this water over what you wish to mold, having turned it in a circle. Then let it coagulate over hot ashes. Use the same process with vitriol and ferrous sulphate which are very calcinated and reduce in water.

p083v_a2

Molding one part in relief and one hollow side



It is necessary to cast two parts of very clean copper, latten or a similar metal and then when you mold the hollow in sand, leave the metal figure, that you have molded in the box mold, without budging it from its place. Then cast and if there is not enough thickness press a bit and force the figure down into the box mold.



It is wise to always mold the faces not close to the cast but the head in bottom because the strength of the material concentrates at the entry of the medal and where the force of the impurity is. Thus if you molded the face close to the cast in this manner, you could find impurities there. It is better that impurities remain on the clothes which you can repair more easily 

 



Vinegar is better for moistening than wine. It is necessary that the box mold be quite equal, otherwise as you press one side, it lifts up the opposite one.



This is why the press is better because it tightens more extremely than by hand, and makes

the sand become fat which loses its moisture. With soft and fine sand which is powdered, and dry, burnish the medal.



When you mold, always leaves your medal in one of the box molds without stirring it because if your pipe is not clean, it will not mold well. You can repair it thanks to the bolts which prevent it from moving. But first, burnish your medal with charcoal made from willow. Then clean your medal because that degreases it and makes it easier to remove it from the mold afterwards.

Do not knock as you are molding because that damage the box mold and the sand.

 

p083v_a3left-middleBellows

To cast with a bellows furnace, cast the hottest you can. Do not place your bellows at the bottom around the base of the furnace, lest some coal should enter them. Place the bellows under the grate. It is wise to place your furnace in a place where there is wind so that the heat will grow better. It is necessary to stop carefully the doors of the furnace, that way only the bellows have an opening. At the end of the cast, you will blow slowly, as you did at the beginning.

