120v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f246.image



p120r_3

eat by itself. And so that he likes it better, you can add to the meat and the egg some mealworm, because nightingales love them.

p120v_1Crocum ferri

It is excellent applied to wounds to stop the bleeding. The best one is made of needle filings.

left-topCrocum ferri hardens moulds that have been reheated, the more feather alum is added, the softer and pliant they become.

p120v_2Anatomy

You must skin the animal and boil it. Or skin it and put it into quicklime.

p120v_3Making silver runny

If it is for a large work, arsenic and pulverized tartar thrown into melted silver, makes the silver runny. This is enough [for silver.]  But for subtle work, you need bronze, filings, copper, even antimony, sublimate, all neatly ground. All of this makes a mass that does not get smaller.  If the plaster is good, you do not need to add crocum for silver, but one puts in more feather alum. It is also necessary to add melted common salt, and some saltpeter and the aforementioned drugs: arsenic, tartar, bronze, copper filings, antimony &amp;

left-middleSciscitatio dubia

left-middleA bit of tallow, and some arsenic.

[image]

p120v_5

left-middle+

See the second folio following [this]

left-middleFlowers can also be kept in their same beauty in distilled vinegar in a vase, well-sealed so it takes no draft, well-sealed with wax and mastic. Carnations and roses, the residue of common vinegar makes them rot.  If the sand makes dust, and sticks to the flowers and hardly comes off with a brush, it is no good. The most lean is the best.

Keeping dried flowers in the same condition all year

right-middleRiver sand, that is washed by the current of water, is good when strained in a cloth to make the powder compact.

This is a rare secret, and which is pleasing for decorating tables, rooms, studies out of season when winter denies you flowers. Be advised to pick them when they are in full vigor and still growing, because if you take them when no longer in bloom or when they are starting to wilt, they will not keep.  Having therefore chosen them, take some sand, the leanest and driest you can find, that must be very well ground, like the one goldsmiths use to sand enamel, or like the one [used] for engraving. But this sand must not be dusty at all, nor must it stay on your hand or leave a trace when you have ground or poured it, because it is

 

left-bottom+

Make sure your box is well sealed so that the sand does not get out. Keep it uncovered in sunlight and keep it away from the evening dew, and the moisture of the night, and cover it and keep it in a dry place.

left-bottomYou can not put these aforementioned flowers in big vases, because if you want to take one out, you will take the whole bunch with it. 

bottomBe advised to not pick your flowers when it is rainy or humid, but when the sun has been shining on them.



