088v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f182.image

p088v_a1Sand from pulverised rock salt and sand from a minium finely ground on marble 

After they have been dryly ground and beaten in the mortar, they are ground finely on the marble. I mixed the same quantity of each material, and in order to mix them better, I ground them on the porphyry again, and then filtered this through a double sieve or the sleeve of a shirt. Then, I put them on sheets of paper and stored it on marble in a cellar. In one night, they were both moist enough [that there there was no need] to dampen them further because rock salt, like all other salts, dissolves in dampness. I molded with this very neatly because both should be quite fine. They need to be moist enough so it can be removed easily.

p088v_a2Mineral sand

It does not matter if the sand color is white or yellow. Above all it the sand must be lumped together much like a precious stone or a stone, and the deeper in the earth one gets it from, the better. The signs of its quality is that it is thus gathered together, that, if the stone is removed as it should be i.e. in the correct way, it forms pieces and  lumps together, which demonstrates its capacity for binding, and that it the sand is not too dry.

However, it should crumble in your hands. And the grain must be  quite small, fine, and homogeneous. If this sand is not fine enough, you can filter it and grind it up finely either with water, or through a sieve, when it or on the porphyry. That way it loses its dryness and becomes greasy and well bound. You can mold it in  a box mold or in a noyau without wadding, and try it with lead because, if it does not swell and casts neatly, it will bear out well too. Some say that fatty sands do not work for casting metal that is too hot. Artisans who undertake a big job and who want to save money do not need to crush sand and seek the curious properties of artificial sand; they have more to profit from finding natural sand that has the finest grain possible. And for a small job, they take advantage of finding the finest natural sand they can. For a smaller job, they only filter the sand through the sieve. But those who work on a very small scale crush the sand and grind it finely until it becomes impalpable, because they do not need as much sand.

 

left-middleGround wheat makes a tawny-colored powder that is quite fine and quite soft. Once this powder has been mixed, it can mix mold very neatly. Try wheat flour burned in an enclosed fire.



 