115v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f236.image

p115v_1Tin casting

If the herbage or flower you want to cast is delicate and fine, tin must exceed lead in your mixture; on the contrary, if it the flower or herbage is thick,  you must add into your mixture more lead than tin. For a fine thing, add one part of tin for four parts of lead. Your mold must not be too hot, so you can hold it with your hand when you cast. Your alloyed tin must be very hot and almost red for casting, and that way it will enter all the small parts of the mold. Otherwise, your tin will cool down before reaching the thin parts of your herbage. Do not forget to mix a little bismuth in your mixture; that way, your tin will run better and be firmer.

  

left-topWith your lead allied with tin, or tin allied with lead, you can add a very little quantity of bismuth and it will look silvery. But do not put too much, because if hardens the matter and makes it sour, and if your work on fine things -- like legs and similar things -- it will not cast properly.

p115v_2Giving ventilation to your mold

If your herbage is very fine, in addition to vents, you can drive a thread through the clay contour of your herbage instead of casting with a needle, and thread it also in the herbage. The thread will burn, like the herbage, and the hole will remain, thus giving extra ventilation.

left-middleDo not remove your annealed molds out of the fire before they have cooled down by themselves. Also make sure that your very hot molds do not come into contact with wind or coldness otherwise they would burst. Do not reheat your molds before they are drained and firm again, otherwise they would cast before the vent holes are made and the clamps are fixed.

p115v_3Annealing core molds

After your molds have their cast vents and clamps, fix the clamps as above mentioned. Then make a round, made of bricks, at the edge of your forge, or in a clean place. Fill this round with big, half-lighted pieces of charcoal. Put your molds on the round, and leave it during half an hour, that way it will gently heat up and not  all at once. Finally, when coals start being white, add big half-lighted big pieces of charcoal and blow with your small bellows until hot. Do as such, slowly, until the molds redden inside and out. If you want to cast a herbage or an animal which are difficult to strip, and you need to burn what is in the mold, look into the cast and see if it is molds are quite red and inflamed inside; this will be a sign that they are properly annealed. If it is not so, increase the heat and keep at it until it becomes thus. If there is nothing inside the mold to be burnt, this heat is good for tin casting. The molds for tin casting are much better annealed in a reverberatory furnace.

[image]

left-bottom



fig_p115v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dHVja3NnV0dmMlk

Do not heat too much at first otherwise your molds could break

 

left-bottomYou know that your molds are annealed enough if the hole in the cast is red, on the contrary if the hole is black  the molds are not annealed enough.

left-bottomIf you want to cast silver, do not anneal twice, and if something stays in the mold and that must be burnt because no good […]



