019r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f43.image





p017r_1



of campaign. Faulconneau is to commonly loaded with a linstock. There are also some other faulconneaux weighing three quintals, and which are nine pans long. Their cannonball weighs half a pound. Their load is a quarter pound of powder. They can be loaded with a linstock, but more commonly they are loaded with a charge. The breech is three cannonballs thick and the front two. The small pieces which are under three quintals are at least three cannonballs and a twelfth of a cannonball thick at the breech, and the front thickness is sometimes reduced to get the proportion according to the length.



left-top

The strength of the piece is at the level of the tourillon, where the lighted powder starts.



left-top

The strength of the berche is at the maslée, behind the breech.





A double musket weighs 2 quintals and is seven pans long. Its cannonball is a quarter of a pound or less. The breech is three cannonballs thick, and the front two. It is loaded with as much powder as cannonballs, to the top of the touch line, which is equivalent for such small pieces to 3 or 4 arquebus powder cannonballs, because if canon powder is used, it can be loaded five cannonballs high.



left-middle

This has to be understood as iron cannonballs. When a metal cannonball is fired, we overload it with a quarter of linstock because if a cannonball weighs 40 pounds, a metal one weights 60 pounds. This is why the sight is higher when a metal cannonball is fired. Because if an iron cannonball is fired directly, a metal cannonball is shot from six lines higher. A metal cannonball, mixed with copper to make it more brittle, is more effective at close range than the iron one. But an iron one is more effective at long range. 



A simple musket weighs one quintal and is six pans long. We disregard the ones that are less than two quintals, and which usually throw lead cannonballs by its weight, and [concentrate on those] which are loaded by caliber. However, those [muskets] that can be loaded with metal or iron cannonballs will work better, for they will do more damage than the lead ones. It is loaded up to the touch line, which is 4 cannonballs thick. 

 

Arquebus à croc weighs 60 pounds, the bigger one is five panels long, it is loaded up to the touch line, which is 4 cannonballs thick; it is loaded with lead cannonballs, and is for house's defence. These great and small arquebuses are used for to make orgues, appropriate for an assault outside and inside.They are casted separately in order to be used in various ways. See the 4th leaf marked.



fig_p019r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5WWY3VjdlVktqZVk







