012r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f29.image

 



p012r_1

For molding from sulfur

Sulfur is made beautiful by mixing in soot black or powdered sanguine, which makes it harder and stronger. After letting it melt entirely until it becomes liquid and similar to oil, then mixing it with verdigris, you can use it for casting a lizard or something else in plaster, very cleanly.

 



left-top

You must not cast it until it has cooled down and lost all its bubbles and eyes, and its surface has fallen and become flat as water. Soot black gives it a fine luster and makes it neater. Use yellow sulfur of the best kind, as the greyish natural sulfur is no good. Don't cast it in the wind and cold for it would fill with bubbles.





p012r_2

Cimolee

Cimolee or fullers’ clay (fullers meaning those who finish cloth) is an excellent material for molding hollow or in relief. If you want to reheat it, it should first be warm and you should reheat gently from a distance, and little by little, otherwise it will crack. To reheat the figure put it in a pot in an oven, or in a closed oven. It comes out very smooth, clean and fine. With cimolee you can make a hollow mold of an animal and cast it in lead.



left-middle

The work needs to have dried for 4 or 5 days before you bake it. When you are molding and making a hollow in cimolee, don't press all at once, but gently, or else it would split.





p012r_3 

Paper

The whitest and thinnest is the best. And when the hollow mold is quite clean, as when it is made of sulfur or baked cimolee, the paper comes out very clean. You can apply a layer or two of white, with a border of gold, to imitate alabaster. And after applying the white you may burnish it with a tooth. Yet in order for it to take burnish you should soak the lead white with egg white and peelings from the fig tree. Or better still, varnish your work with white varnish. Also while you are molding with paper, as it starts drying, burnish the back of it with the tooth.





p012r_4

Plaster

Mountain plaster is greyer, and that from the region of Albi is whiter. It has to be heated over a closed fire, such as a reverberatory furnace or fours de barbiers. The more freshly heated, the better it is to work with. It should be finely crushed on marble. After preparing your hollow mold of sulfur or another [material] and oiling it and surrounding it with a circle, soak your plaster in water, not too thick, and rub it well with your finger, and if it makes bubbles, throw on more powder of the said plaster and crush it with your finger until +



left-bottom

+ it makes no more bubbles. Then once more throw and sprinkle plaster powder on top and leave to set well, then scrape the powder off.

