072r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f149.item



p072r_1

Printer's letters

The people who make the letters mix with the lead nails heads of nails, old horseshoes, and antimony to help melting. This mixture is good for printing, and holds steady. It flows and is well suited to casting in lead.





p072r_2

Copper casting

The box mold should be even-shaped and well fitted onto the board where it is placed, so that it will hold steady and even when one moulds. The sand should be clean and carefully selected, well baked, and regarding the sand you will pour directly over the medal and press the harder while molding, it should be very finely pulverised on the marble. Be careful not to oil your medal or the metal will be brittle. Bake slowly and thoroughly, and let cool. Moisten your sand with wine boiled with elm root, and in it, cast well-flowing latten (that is, latten from scales and similar thin things). Cast as widely as possible, and although the stream [of metal] will not be very thick, it will not be any worse. Still, make sure it enters the mold well. Cast from the foot of the medal up, so that the face, further away from the heat, comes out better and the violent effect of the heat is softened. And if your box mold does not have furrows, draw some  in the sand, from the borders of the mold towards the hollow where you will be casting. Cast very hot; you will know [if you are at the right temperature] by throwing a bit of your reserved material into what is already  very molten, and if it melts right away, it is a sign that [your metal] is hot enough. Then maintain a vigorous heat in your furnace with bellows of an appropriate size, while holding the mouth of your furnace well covered with a large  tile or something similar that needs to be red before the casting. When you want to cast, have your mollettes red hot, and the iron hook as well, to clean out the charcoals [fallen] in your material. Having cast, scrub your work with a latten wirebrush. The residual powder from large scissors and large knives is very good for copper.



left-middle

It is said to be a great secret to add persicaire to [the cast], in order to make it as fluid as lead. Try to extract salts from it.