072v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f150.image

 



p072v_1

Casting

 

Lead, which is soft and heavy, wants to be cast much hotter than tin. When it is not hot enough, it makes lines in the medal. Straw burns in it, if it is hot enough. It makes a solder so soft and runny that it can be melted in a tin dish. It is composed of one part out of looking glass tin, of one part out of soft tin, and another part of lead. It the solder runs very cleanly and casts in sheets, but the work is very rough and breaks. The best solder, for casting well, is the common one, but it leaves certain coarse crumbs. Combine lead with tin so that the ingot that you are going to cast becomes smooth and lustrous and polished, and doesn't make any eyes or bubbles except for a small point in the middle. And this sign will tell you that there is enough tin, otherwise the lead dominates too much. The sand is good for lead and tin. Good sand is well dried and fine and thin, which however can be picked up between the fingers. The sand wants to be recooked rather than put to work directly. And  to mold with it, it wants to be well dampened and then recooked, not all at once nor under a lot of pressure, because this spoils it, and makes it shrink and also makes it crumble. But if you reheat it, and take your time, it will make it very firm, to be good for molding. It is necessary to filter it  through a shirt sleeve in order to make it the more fine, with the aim of putting it first on the piece to be cast.

 

One makes a solder with quicksilverthat is white, but it is thick. Make sure your box is joined well and that one does not see any daylight between the joints.

 

The Germans cast lead very thinly, because they think it is better than very thick, but as it is too pliable, it is so thin they mix a little tin with the aforementioned lead which, otherwise, would fold like wax.

 

Some say the blackest lead is the best and the softest and flows the best. You recognize the goodness of it by rubbing it with your finger, which will  blacken immediately.

 

The good alloy for the flow of lead and tin is [made] from one lb of lead, and one and a half lb of tin. It is solder which flows well that is good for casting, but it is rough.

 



right-top

To make the lead flow well, mix in a little quicksilver.

 



left-top

Rub a cuttlefish bone on a table in order to make it flat and one against the other and against the two bones with pegs to keep them in place.

 



left-top

Cuttlefish bone molds lead better than [any]thing there is, but try to see if it needs to be recooked. One must mold the back of the bones and along the side of them because the marrow there is more delicate.

 



left-middle

The marrow near the mouth is more delicate and does have not as many fibers and molds more cleanly. The shell which has the marrow which is calcinated is good for making sand.

 



left-middle

When you cast lead, you must cast it  somewhat hot, and not at once and shake your frame and cast two or three times. However, if it is too hot, cast it, it will cast swollen and with bubbles. When it is very hot, it becomes blue; leave it then until the color passes  and let it rest a little before casting.

 



left-middle

Some, such as printers, mix iron filings or pins filings with lead  in order to render it hard. But this makes it rough and it breaks not under a hammer.



left-bottom

Have a scrub brush for cleaning your molds.



 