048v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f102.image

p048v_a1Regulus extracts

Take one pound of antimony, half a pound of black soap, and half a pound of Montpellier tartar. Once it is all pulverized, you have to boil it in a varnished earthenware pot on a big fire as you stir it with a piece of wood or iron. The soap will burn off and be consumed by the fire and the rest will stay red. The quantity has to be reduced to a third. Then throw that on a tile and it will turn blackish. You will have to melt and pour that on a tile four or five times and then you will have regulin from antimony.

Others pulverise the antimony and mix it with equal quantities of saltpeter and powdered tartar and heat a pot or crucible until it is red hot, then add a little bit at a time, turning their back for fear of the smoke, and keep doing so until everything is added. They maintain the fire until everything is completely melted and melt that several times.

p048v_a2Lead tin

They crack if they are often melted again and thicken and burn, so that even if a salmon is made, the tin becomes thick at the bottom if it is not stirred often during casting. It is better for casting to melt some lead and some tin and to renew it each time. The antimony makes them breakable, the iced tin makes them whiter. Pewterers mix a pound of iced tin with a quintal of fine tin and two and a half or three pounds of red, mild cauldron copper, which is better than latten. There is fine and mild tin and sour tin. Pewterers cast the sour as grills to sell it better. They go better and more cleanly in stone moulds than in copper molds because copper is fat and draws the mild tin when heated. Or when casting a large work, three quarts of lead with one pound of mild tin produces a very liquid mixture which is appropriate for casting and is as shiny as a mirror. Laxunge glass lightens them. All things that lighten metals a lot and remove their thickness and natural density and make them as liquid as water make them appropriate for casting because their thickness stops them from flowing. The mild tin is more even than the sour tin, which is whiter and seems to have been polished like a mirror.

 

left-bottomTo properly alloy the tin and the lead, you have to melt them together, Then, mix them together a little bit at a time and throw it often on a marble tile. And when it is going well, you will see it becoming unified and shining as if it were burnished. Because sometimes it becomes spotted due to too much lead and sometimes due to too much tin. There is some tin allied with more lead. Ordinary tin is allied with some lead.

