113r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f231.image





p112v_1

a bit so that you can take it out if you need to. And be advised that these needle points must be of the thinnest kind of iron wire, with a length that is suitable to the animal; because the smaller your needle is, the smaller the leftover hole will be. However, you must have different sized ones because there are some needles that go on the body and in places that are thicker, like under the throat, and some needles must be longer and stronger than the ones used on legs and thin places, where the needles must be subtle and thin, almost like the biggest harpsichord strings. And it would be better if they were of iron wire, which is firmer than the one made of latten. And if piece of a tail, a piece of nail or a piece of leg to the body needs to be joined to the body, do not use the needle; it would damage these parts. But apply a bit of wax, as big as a grain of millet, between the body and the end of the tail. Then with a bit of iron wire, flattened and warm, touch the wax and join the two pieces by applying a bit of pressure. In this way, after your animal has been well-placed on the lute-shaped pancake of clay earth, 

fig_p113r_2

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5YkE1Vm1ZMmRoVm8

 

build around it a wall of the same clay 



fig_p113r_3

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5aW1sekxQWGJJY0E

 in this way. And join everything together. And then with a big knife, with which you have cut the clay, take away the extraneous clay surrounding the pancake. And place on a piece at the end of the mold to close it off, as you see in B. Then, with a small curved instrument, mark on the inside of your mold the thickness you wish, which for a common serpent must be two inches thick; so that when you put in your wet sand, you will see when it is thick enough. When all of this is neatly set out, moisten well the shaped body of the animal everywhere, with good spirits, with a brush.  For this is the best-kept secret: because everything that is touched by spirits will come out very neatly and without any small eyes or holes that we call bubbles, which usually come not at the back or in the thick sides of the mold, but on the edges.  And as soon as you have thusly moistened everything with spirits, put in your wet sand without letting the spirits evaporate, which they do quickly.  And soak it thusly.





fig_p113r_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5MDEzX0RhXzJGcXc

 and make sure the needle is as long as you need according to how much you want to raise the head, and that both ends are sharp. Having been arranged thusly, affix your serpent on the clay earth, and place the head first and then the rest.





left-middle

If, once you have placed you animal on sheet of clay, you are distracted with other occupations, rub your animal with spirits and under the belly so that it does not stick or attach itself to the clay earth.



fig_p113r_4

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5Qm8wSlJPOWxfZWM





left-bottomIf, when you pierce the belly of your animal, it releases water on the plaster, clean it well with cotton because the sand that was wet will become lumpy. If it is on top of the animal, clean it very carefully and very neatly and touch it and strongly wet it with spirits.





p113r_1

Wetting sand and molding the first cast

Have a porringer of leaded earth of such a size that it can hold the wet sand which will be needed to fill your mold in one go, which is better than in two gos, because if you do not throw the second load of sand in very quickly, there is a risk that while you are preparing it, the first one will take and become solid,



