028v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f62.image



p028v_1

Pewterers

They think that the best tin is the one that comes in saulmons, which has not been remelted since it came from the mine, because the masters remelt it on the grill, weighing two or three pounds, to more easily cut it and sell it by the piece. And in this they often mix in left-overs from bars of soldering and common tin. And to recognise the best one, it is the most lustrous, which is almost burnished, because it is softer. Sometimes in their ingots they find pieces of iron, stones, or similar troublesome additions, made to cheat on the weight. The tin from England is so hard that the miners add lead to soften it. The one that comes from Germany is softer. Usually, the master pewterers, sworn in to the good cities, add 6 or 8 pounds of fine lead to a quintal of fine tin. The others, who work in the fields, add fifteen or twenty pounds or as much as they can, and to disguise the darkness and the softness of the lead, they put in looking-glass tin, 4 lb. per quintal, +, which whitens and hardens, and six or height lb. of rosette, to give the plate a good ring. To cast platters and plates, they make them out of pierre morte, that is from grès, and they form and polish them on the potter's wheel. They melt their tin in an iron posnet on a charcoal fire, and with an iron spoon that holds the quantity sufficient for a platter, they cast in their cold molds, which they keep joined and squeeze between their knees. Soon, they open the molds so that they do not heat up, and having taken out the casting which is on the female side, and which breaks easily. Then, with a piece of cloth soaking in water, which they always have at hand, they rub the middle of the back side of the plate and around the edge, so that it comes out better, and they rub the female mold with it.



left-middle

+ 

When the tin is fine, one adds less glass-looking tin to it, that is 4 lb. per quintal, but if the tin is low-quality, that is allied with a lot of lead, one adds at least five or six lb. of looking-glass tin to it. If there is not a lot of looking-glass tin, one adds about two or three lb. per quintal. One adds eight lb. of rosette. But if there is a lot of looking-glass tin, about 4 or 5 lb., one only adds six of rosette. And commonly, for one quintal of tin, one adds x lb. of both.







p028v_2

Go to the fifth page.

