091r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f187.image



p091r_1

Grafting

Any tree that has a large pith will be hard to be graft from, because the cutting is difficult to remove.  If the pith is damaged, the graft will take in an unstraight manner, like with vines of all peach and apricot trees.

 

Apricot trees have a very thin bark, and so it is necessary to graft them onto young trees whose own bark is not thick yet, such as the young shoots of prune trees or apricot trees.

 

The graft will not take if the cutting gets wet.  It is necessary therefore to graft in serein and mild weather, not too cold and not too windy.

 

One must use old wood to graft, if one wants to graft on a tree that is already mature and quite big; because if this is the case, it will compress the cutting, and if the cutting is of young wood, it will not grow properly. But old wood resists the compression of old wood better than the young, because it is harder than young wood. But if the graft is done with only old wood, it will never grow beautifully, but will be frail and short and will take a long time to grow.



p091r_2

Molding with cuttlefish bone

Pay attention to keep the bones in a dry place, because they are very prone to dampness. If you have a small medal, divide the bone into two pieces, then smooth the two parts with a knife. And on a dry, smooth rooftile [that has been] pulverized with willow charcoal, rub and polish the two half bones. In this way, the bones soak up the willow charcoal so that the bones will come off cleanly from the cast, and will not stick to it. Then on a fake bone, that is to say a bit of smooth brick of the same width as your bone, place your medal. And then on the medal, put your bone and press it firmly with another stone of the same size.  And for a second time, mold it, and instead smooth over the top with willow charcoal and blow slowly, then press as before, and it will cast neatly. If it is for a spoon handle, two whole bones are needed.  Any work that is cast is brittle and prone to breaking, because the metal swells when cast, and contracts and condenses when hammered. That is why it is necessary to retrace with a chisel the cast object and in this way the metal will contract again and let it escrouir.  If the piece you have to cast is in high relief, first trace the mold and the hollow with a penknife, to make a clear path for the medal and then cast it. And if the medal has two sides

left-bottomRather than casting, heat the bones only to make them lose the coldness and wetness.

 

left-bottomWhen the lead gets too hot, it calcinates.





 