068v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f142.image





p068r_3

and immediately you will be able to crumble it between your fingers and to easily grind it in a metal mortar, or better yet, in an iron one. After, it will be easy to crush it, not on a common marble slab that would be damaged, but on porphyry, and it must be finely crushed with water so that when you place it on your fingernail, you will find it soft without any roughness like the colors that the painters crush for oil painting. You can use this one instead of sand, when it is dry, for the box mold, without humidifying it with anything and without reheating it. If you do not like it, fumigate the hollow of the mold with sulfur smoke or with the tip of the flame of a wax candle that barely smokes, and with pure lead and tin the mold will make a very clean, shiny, and smooth work. I would say the same for finely pulverized rotten stone, which does not want to be reheated or humidified. Using burned cloth is easier than anything because it does not need to be reheated, nor to be humidified, nor to be cast and removed subtly or very cleanly, like the others I mentioned, and it stands up to several castings. First you must burn it with a flame, then leave it to rot and be consumed with its fire until it is completely burned, then refine it on marble or paper. And if you reheat it in a red hot crucible all of it will be rendered fine and insubstantial, I believe that this make it even better. But because a lot of cloth is reduced to very little when it is burned, if you want to save some, sprinkle and cover only the medal that you want to cast with it, and fill the box mold with crushed slate, that also molds very neatly, but note that the first cast is always the most beautiful and the cleanest. By the way, if you cast the soft tin that pewterers sell, the kind that appears to be burnished on these little turning wheels, very well cleaned and approaching the color of silver, without being mixed with anything else, it is true that it must be cast quite hot and that the molded object must be four fingers from the cast. In order to know the temperature you must first melt it quite hot so that if you put a paper or straw in it when it is simmering it quickly burns it. Then remove it from the fire and leave it to rest a little and cast the tin mixed





