0061v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f128.image



p0061v_1

Water to make light for painters

Distill some vine water and put it into a big bottle. Put your candle behind that, and it won't disturb your vision.





p0061v_2

Chassis used by Germans

Germans who work in small scale make 'chassis" not of glass but of canvas oiled with clear turpentine varnish, that is half of turpentine oil and almost half of turpentine, because such light, being less bright than glass, makes the lines appear thicker. And when they want to make something more delicate, such as veins and similar things, they use brushes made of two or three rat hairs.

 



p0061v_3

Azure enamel with oil

One must choose the finest possible, for if it is coarse one cannot work in oil. And if you cannot find any that is fine enough, you may as well grind it, not with water but with oil, and grind it thick. Then lay it on your palette and mix in some turpentine but not much, to make it bind, and make it as thick as butter or mortar, and then, with a large enough brush, work it while always moving the brush freely. Then, to soften it, make jagged hatching movements with the tip of the brush. The highlights will be made using the same diluted with ceruse, which makes it bind, making it easier to work. I have seen it used thus. It must be very thick, so that you almost need an effort to spread it with your brush. And it will be all the better if you lay down your painting. All these difficulties do not occur when it is very fine and fluid without being crushed, and it doesn't run.

 



left-bottom

Azure needs to be applied neatly, which is why it always fades when it is applied over old, already tarnished, azure to mend an old painting. In such cases, it is better to scrape off the old layer and prime again and then apply the azure. It is the same for almost all other colors. Also azure mixed with oil always remains shiny, which is not good for azure because that makes it fade.





p061v_4

Grinding colors

A slab of glass one inch thick is more appropriate than anything else for grinding colours neatly, especially for lacquer and for whites.

