157r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f319.item.r=

p157r_1The mode in which goldsmiths mold hollow molds



They mold their animal, or another solid work that they have already made or rough-hewn in wax and cast in lead, in two cuttlefish bones. When it is good and impressed in the two cuttlefish bones, they put a piece of paper between the two bones &amp; join the bones and cast. The work comes in parts by halves. And then with a chisel they dig into the two half castings of gold or silver as subtly as they like, and then they solder or braze them.

 

p157r_2Bright red



Some goldsmiths try it out on finely beaten gold that is well burnished with a chisel. But it is better to try it out on a gold ingot, and to test it as well on a work or [illeg.] your materials fantastic, since if they look good &amp; extraordinary on a big work, they will show excellently on a common work.

p157r_3Flies 

They mold better on a single leaf than on a bouquet or a flower or the branch of an herb, since the single leaf is molded in two halves that being reheated can be opened up and cleaned well, &amp; the cast will be better. In picking up the fly, take heed that you do not break its legs or let it dry out too much, because then the legs will fall off. And if this happens to you, glue the same legs back on with fish glue and wax, or adapt the hairs of a pig or the cords of a spinet. Fix the leaf on a flat piece of clay with two pins, and the fly with one pin in the middle of its body &amp; the feet with wax.

 

p157r_4Cleaning and degreasing your cast tin works, and others

Make some lye passed through scrupulously with good ashes, and it should be new &amp; without any fat; boil your molded work in it. And the tallow and fat will leave.

p157r_5Arranging an herb or flower to cast



Always put the front side of the thing on the upper side because it will come out better and neater than the lower side. Make the casting large &amp; prepare the supraplus, which is the mass, after the founders of large castings, even for silver, which needs a very hot mold &amp; is cast very hot. Very fine thing must be cast very hot.

left-bottom

When you know that the stem of a flower burned in a mold that will not open at all is totally reduced to ashes, this is the sign that everything else is well-burned.

