093v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f192.image

p093v_1Faces painted with distemper

Because colors painted with distemper dry quickly and one would not have enough time to complete the shadows and touches on the face, one wets the reverse of the face, on canvas, with a wet sponge. Then, with a small pinceau, one makes the shadows, which won't come off. Next, one lays the flesh tones, which do not prevent the already painted shadows from appearing. And then, one retouches the more prominent areas with lively flesh tones. And with another pinceau one retouches the shadows in hatching. The shadow strokes do not come off because they are made of bister, which stains the canvas like rust. The said bister is good for making shadows with distemper, for in oil it has no body and would dry with great difficulty. One mixes ru ochre in the said bister for shadows with a little sap green. The best bister is the rich, shiny one from the fireplaces of large kitchens. It is difficult to grind and screeches on the marble slab.

p093v_2Azure

Azur desmail always wants to be cleaned because the filth that can be seen in the used water would makes it die. It always needs to be coated twice, &amp; first very thickly, driving the pinceau by laying it lengthwise then across. It is better used on canvas, which imbibes it immediately, than on wood. Varnish restores its vigor, because while imbibing, it becomes dark. To try it, painters bring their palettes to the grocers and distemper and mix @ it with a bit of white crushed in oil, for in this way the beautiful shows its turquine vivacity, while the mediocre is lavender grey. The thinner one is best to work with. It is made thinner by being washed.

 

p093v_3Purple and lake

It is made of azure and lake which is also tested on the palette with white. The one which gives a clear red rose color, tending slightly towards purple, on a polished knife or on glass, is esteemed beautiful. The dark red one is not as pleasant.

