118r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f241.image

p118r_a1Snails

Those which are found in the ocean and similarly those in which certain small crabs dwell are very beautiful for grottoes, if they have been rid of the first layer of their shell with aqua fortis, because they really look to be made of mother-of-pearl.

p118r_a2For removing flaws and flashing from things molded in a core mold

If your molds are made of good plaster which withstands fire, they will not crack, especially if they are squeezed well between two tables with presses or in a pot filled with ashes or sand, and, therefore, they will not develop flaws. If they they develop some flaws, you can remove them with a burin called chaple which has a tip like a small chisel.

left-middleThe old vine stocks

p118r_a3For grottoes

Stones made from water called stuf; charcoal; the confection of tin and pure brass; paper ground up and mixed with ground up glass; cork; heated parchment, and white coral, all of them are appropriate for making grottoes. But, once dry, bizarre pieces of wood, which [the bizarre pieces of wood] are found in the forests and among regular mushrooms and potirons growing on trees, are better than all of them because they are light. Mix in with small pieces of looking-glass tin which have a shiny luster. Grind in a little of a different kind of marcasite in order to clean the earth away, then powder the work, which is very beautiful. If there is no spring in the grotto, glue all of this with strong glue, and then the work is done. You must show all kinds of mines. The sulfurous marcasites which do not have a grain but are even like looking-glass tin are very beautiful.

left-middleRed copper is found sometimes mixed with certain brittle lumps which are pulverized under the hammer, which are very beautiful pulverized on grottoes.

p118r_a4Looking-glass tin

If one ounce of looking-glass tin is put in with it pure tin, pure tin whitens and becomes firm, that is, i ℥ of looking-glass tin in one lb of pure tin.

 

p118r_a5Salt ammoniac

Salt ammoniac water is naturally quite good for casting in gold and in silver.

