112v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f230.image



p112r_4

to cast, force feed it your animal some good spirits or mix a bit of spirits with the vinegar. And soon it will be dead without any wounds that would deform it. As for large animals, for which it is necessary to have a lot of spirits, one uses vinegar and urine, but for small ones, spirits only are needed, and it will be done quicker.

When your animal is dead, take it out and clean it very carefully, relieving it of its old skin if it sheds, of its parasites like lizards have, and then apply it.

left-topin a glass, and submerge, continuously holding the head of the animal. Or if it is not very big, put the whole thing in.

left-topBe advised that before it dies, you must open it eyes, by blocking its eyelids with a bit of wax or something else.



p112v_1

Affixing and arranging animals

Having gotten in some fat earth called clay, that should be grey, because that is the best one, or another that will bind well and will be well prepared and beaten, so that it is malleable without being damaging your hands or the work, make a lazagne, or a pancake shape, of this clay equally flattened with a rolling pin, which pastry-makers use so that it is slightly thicker than a poulc.  And on this pancake, affix your animal, making it as life-like as possible and the way in which it is naturally shaped. And firstly, with a good needle, pierce it from underneath, in the middle of the throat, up to the top bone of the head. Then take the needle out and in the hole, put the point of an iron wire, of such a length that it suffices to maintain the head of the animal as high as it must be, and if the skin gets in when you put in the wire, take it out with the edge of your small pincer, and arrange the skin as it was before. Pierce the other end of the wire in the sheet of clay. In this way the head will be held high, which will make it more graceful and proud. Arrange afterwards, the rest of the body, and the legs, and the curling as you think will look best. And so that it is secure and does not move when you put in the sand, secure the legs with little points of iron wire, having already made the first hole with a very sharp needle. Do the same on the body parts that you deem necessary, making sure that the points going through the animal are fixed in the clay sheet, and not so far in front that they jut out beyond the body of the animal by a

left-topTake a needle of fine steel, and which will be the sharpest you can find,  so that with it, when you make your first hole in order to place the wire threads, it will pass through without effort, and take care not to rudely insert the wire or take skin with it.  Then put a thicker wire in the thick bits [of the animal] and the thinner wire in the thinner bits. But take this secret advice and do not plant your pointed wire in one go through the animal and onto the plaster, but having planted it, take it out of the clay earth but not out of the animal, which is afterwards fastened there. One does this because by fastening the point the first time, it pushes in the skin of the serpent and by taking the point out, it replaces the skin in its original state.

left-bottomWhen you reuse the points you have already used, make sure to clean them well of rust, so that they do not take away some skin.

bottomThe main arrangement of your casting is to keep its head very high and have it looking sideways.  For this effect, pierce the head on a solid plank or table, making the wire pass through the bottom of the throat up to the top of the head 



fig_p112v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5c3dzVlNzcUd6MnM







