049r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f103.image

p049r_a1Lead casting

Those who cast these small items, sold in front of the churches, melt half a pound of lead on a pound of tin, and cast in a stone frame. And if they want their work [to be] whiter, they use half of tin and half of lead, but the first mixture is the best, and does not make bubbles.You have to cast it hot enough, otherwise it won't flow. Some [people] smoke their molds with a rosin candle for neat casting. The antimony makes the matter harsh and breakable. The looking-glass tin makes the work whiter, but does not make it flow more than with tin that is correctly made with pure lead. Those who make very precise lead castings use puncheons. Tintiers cast with copper molds. It is said that one makes lead adhere to glass by using resin. Some people put a quarter of tin on lead. Glass tin makes the work stronger.

left-topPoncet.They cast by using the souldure the glass-makers use. Lump [of metal] of [...] Calcinated oyster shell.

p049r_a2Sand for lead casting

Rye straw ashes well boiled, dried and then well sieved. alloy it with egg white. One can add copper, latten and others. 

p049r_a3Other

Burnt and calcinated pumice stone, burnt and calcined cuttlefish bones, in the same quantity; and ashes of walnut tree or vine, boiled, dried and finely sieved alloy with egg white.

p049r_a4Pewterers

They add one lb. of glass tin to one quintal of fine tin, which makes the tin ticker. There is two kinds of tin, one which flows better, like lead, while the other one is sour and can be made thicker. They are casted in thick and solid tin molds or, to cast more neatly, in chisel-engraved copper molds, or stone or earth [molds]. Latten scrapings mixed in make the tin more breakable and harder, and more difficult to work with. They cast in the very hot molds some very hot tin. They perfume their tin molds with resin candles. 

Sour tin is often mingled with salmons, easy to cut but difficult to work with and melts if it is not mingled with the other soft one. And thus it would become leftover. 

