099r 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f203.image





p098v_a5

Earth or crushed wet sand with water needs to be reheated more than sand.

Latten from a candlestick is not pure since some filings and pot metal are mixed into it.

Latten needs to be cast warmer than copper, which I do not believe.

To cast scrupulously, you must not take all of the alloyed metals together, but take them in [their] pure [form] and mix them.

Iron shoul not […] to cast in copper or brass.

It is better to mold sand at once, either as a molding box or noyau, rather than several casts.

left-top 

You must reheat a crucible on a charcoal fire which easily ignites for one or two hours with the material inside. Then breathe on it and cover the crucible with large pieces of charcoal and the opening of the stove with bricks, and let it consume two or three lumps of charcoal which shall fill the stove beneath the crucible. Eventually put the molding box on the fire and when the flame is very white and the material is as light as water and spitting some pale blue flames, [make the] cast. The secret to casting well is to do so at a very high temperature and speedily.

 

p099r_a2Thin white sand without bond is perfect for casting and it becomes thicker if you crush it very finely on porphyry or you calcinate it by making it red-hot several times, and if it becomes vinegar or thinner with water, as you know, it casts as well very precisely in a core, as I did the experiment. But don't soak it with salted water if you want to anneal it quickly for salt boils on fire and creates more dust while it is being pressed by the fire. I think that reheated cores gently would not react like this. I cast very neatly as a core some matter and […]. white sand smells sulphur when it is reheated, and I think that it would melt. And since the material has been cast into it, it takes in the mold a luster as if it were leaded or vitrified. I think that glassmakers could use it.

 

left-midle

A very little sal ammoniac must be dissolved in water.

p099r_a3 

Bell handles



They can be repaired well without remaking the bell, which you must put back into the pit and the mold inside. But it is thought impossible to give back to it its original tone when soldering a cracked bell.

