061r

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f127.image





p060v_4

and unite it well and being quite dry, they draw their portrait and apply their natural skin color, leaving the areas of shadow like the forehead and the side of the cheek and the empty space around the eyes and drying until they have filled the rest. Afterwards they apply separately the shadows which they do not make as dark as they could naturally be. In sum, they don't apply shadow on skin color nor skin color on shadow. So white is on white and black is on black and each color is separate, and in this way their work is neat and colors don't fade away.





p061r_1

Skin colors

It is necessary that you make it of two kinds, one more red to make the main layer, the other more pale for the highlights, as around the eyes. And then on this last skin color, you will touch lightly the main lights with a little white lead. But avoid applying too much of it because this will look like a face of death. The beautiful Florence lacquer makes a beautiful vivid skin color that resembles the complexion of alexandrine pink and incarnadine.



left-top

Certain colors need to be ground like minium or massicot. The ashes don't need to be ground at all.





p061r_2

Making things round

If you want to model well, soften round things by rounding them off with the brush point and the rest with a flat part if it is flat, and thus for the others according to their nature, and lightly with the dry and flattened brush point and with patience.



 



p061r_3

White lead

Without this, you can't work on a small scale for which it is necessary to soften with great care. But you can't do it with ceruse because it does not have enough body.





p061r_4 

Lights

Your brush shows it to you by making some shadow which must always follow the back of your hand, not in a straight line like this,  because the light would be too crude and too harsh, but obliquely and as an incline like this.  It is necessary that the painting is not facing the light, but be half turned back against it, and above all look for a soft light, for it makes a soft shadow and soft work, like a harsh light makes a harsh work.

