006v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f18.image

p006v_a1For cages

You can embellish them with thin enamel canes of various colors by covering the yellow latten or iron wire with said canes. These you will break neatly into the length that you want if you make a small notch with a cutting file at the point where you want to break them, and they will not break anywhere else. You can bend them with a wooden model over a brazier or by the heat of a lamp. A cane can be stretched out as long as you want in a small furnace made like a reverberatory oven but with openings on both sides. And once the large cane is red, they seize the hot end of it with small pincers that have long beaks, with one end of the beak inside the end of the cane, so that it may be stretched without becoming blocked. The other end of the cane is held with the hand, as it is not hot. Once the cane is stretched enough, the one who is working seated with his stove, the size of a carnation pot, placed in front of him, breaks it off and carries on. This is for making canes for capes, which may be cut, as already mentioned, with a file. Glass-button makers also use the said stove.



fig_p006v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5eVFRYjVCTmczcmM



left-middleUnder the door is a grill that supports the burning charcoal. The ash is emptied by turning the stove upside down.

p006v_a2For stamped ornaments used for embellishing and inserting into or covering the edges of mirrors, the tops of chests, or the friezes of bed valances

Etch with aqua fortis on iron or copper whatever you have pounced and drawn there, next make it neat with a burin or chisel. Then pour soft tin, yet unused, onto polished marble and flatten it, making it quite thin, with a wooden board. Or else pour it on a table as is done with lead, or put it through a roll-press. Next lay your tin plate over the engraving, and over the tin plate put a piece of felt and strike it with a hammer. Then gild it in the following manner.

