114v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f234.image



fig_p114v_1

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dmlRQm1lTjc4aXc

left-top







p114r_1

This thus prepared, put your first half-mold on the disc of clay, surround it with a clay circle and do a thickness mark similar to the first one. Then, with a rather thick brush, wet with spirits all your animal's exposed half, without, if possible, missing any part, because therein lies the secret to casting neatly. Then, as fast as possible before the spirits evaporate, soak your sand, and cast it, shaking, blowing, and moving the mold, as you did for the first one, making sure that what you pour first on the animal is clearer than the rest, so that it is soaked everywhere and highlights the finer parts. So, leave it for fifteen minutes so it sets, then remove the clay circle and disc. And, with a knife, join you two molds together in a longish form, like a mandore, as we say, because of how you cast. Then soak a little in water the whole mold up to the level of the joints. Because this is another secret to separate them more easily. Otherwise, you would break everything. Separate them like this skillfully. After this, gently and patiently remove half of the animal still in the mold, pulling it sometimes on one side and sometimes on the other, in order to avoid breaking it, or ruining parts of the mold. The mold, being empty, rejoin both half so that no dust comes in, and put them aside until you want to heat them up, make the runners, the vents and put the clamps. As for the animal, to avoid it drying, and in order to be be able to use it to mold 4 or 5 of times, put it on water. I believe that it would be better preserved in spirits. However, it would be best to make the 4 or 5 molds the same day because these animals rot and 

will smell within the day. Having left your molds to dry out, for they will stay humid for at least a month, make the vents for one half. 

fig_p114v_3

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5dkk3MW10YzNIbDg



 



left-top

+ Note that once you have made your second casting, if you left your mold without opening it for a day or a night, you would then need to put it into hot water or reheat it, rather than open it, like for the crab.



left-top

If after both halfs of the noyau have set and hardened, it would not open if you did not dip it into water. But as you dip the back of your mold into water, oil comes back to the top and touches the joints which separates them.



left-middle

However, be sure that your second mold is thick enough, and hard enough otherwise it could break while dipping it into water if you want to open it. To avoid this mistake dip the entire mold into water and rub it everywhere, if the mold has set enough it will harden. Then take both molds with a rough cloth, in order to grip it better. Then strongly separate the molds as if you wanted to tear bread apart.  But in case it breaks, rejoin them, and fortifies the joints with clamps.



fig_p114v_4

https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B9-oNrvWdlO5NmZxVUxKTmhYSXM







bottom

Afterwards you can repair the mistakes with a small pair of scissors.





