107v 

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f220.image

 





Molds for fine things, like wormwood or something similar, can only be used once, dip the molds into water before breaking them. Things twice reheated are dissolve easily into water. If you don't do that your work will be hard to be stripped of the mold without being spoiled.

Good stone alum is white and as shiny as white silk, this stone alum is made of long pieces, as long as a finger, and is very fragile and woolly and fluffy. Stone alum made of stone is harder and not so good. The best quality can be found in France near Ronan. For our sand, stone alum must be crushed into a mortar, and must be ground on the marble again. Don't even think about sieving it because this matter is fat and woolly, it wouldn't pass through any sieve because of the very fine and soft filaments. These filaments give the sand a much greater binding effect than natural wool or even the filler the foundry owner uses for big works, because natural wool and filler burn and stone feather alum resists fire.

 

When you cast surround the sand of your mold with very beaten greasy earth. Make a circle around your mold with this earth.

Archanum omnibus fere reconditum est in re fusoria,

v{idelicet} res exprimenda formis, sive herba sit sive animal

ut lucerta, inmergatur primum in vini spiritum

aprime rectificatum, deinde pulvere composito aspergatur

sive illinatur (si pulvis in formam pultis redactus sit, ut

assolet)

  

When you want to mold something hollow, the core must be made of the same matter, if the snake or the animal is curved or folded you must do your core in several pieces.

 

Try [to see] if distilled vinegar is good for eating away, it will dissolve the animal inside the hollow mold.

 

left-topIf you know that your plaster cannot endure fire without breaking, do not take the recipe of the mixture literally, sometimes you can add less stone alum than above. Because stone alum soften molds. Once reheated do not grind the stone alum again, leave it ground as the apothecaries did. It will not prevent the cast from being neat, and will give more binder to your cast. When the mold holds the color of the brick and is reddened then it will be harder.

