128v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f262.image



p128r_1



You will see that it will stir it and heat it intensely and soon will make it quite liquid and ready to cast, and lighten it as it should.When it is in that state, very white and polished, shiny like quicksilver, be ready to cast. To that end, have thin, diluted sand in a pot or other vessel, which will be helpful to your mixture. Make a hole in your sand, and with you pincers put your red hot mold in this sand hole. Cover immediately the opening of your mold so that no ash or dust enters in it, and then surround it with sand up to the level of the gate and the vents. This done, peel off you mold and cast you well molten silver, the size of a pea of this metallic grain, which will immediately spread your silver all over, making it boil and cover everything. Cast as soon as you have spread this matter; that is the secret to make silver run, because its crust heats up and lightens it up. You can cast silver thinner than the Capital league [norm], as the royal one. 



left-top

Don't forget to add first some borras in your molten silver, even if silversmiths do not. However, it is good to do it and I have seen it done. Then we add matter from the crust twice, and then some of the metallic thing. Keep it from [illegible] that be laid at the very end of your forge.



left-top

Si tu want to blow away the ashes that are around your mold when you hold it with your pinces, hold it upside down and blow.



left-middle

When silver is well melted you can expose and blow it with a small bellow, but not continuously like you would do for gold, to get rid of the charcoal and fill it only with matter that make it runny.





p128v_1

Whitening of cast silver



People, even German people, commonly cast silver of poor quality. Because this kind of alloy produces defects and crusts, some silversmiths are eager to whiten their works, including the coarser ones. To do this they mix an equal part of tartar and common salt in their bullitoyre. I saw an excellent German working that way. In my presence, he casted a lizard with a teston league alloy, which had produced a dirty crust. To clean it, this German boiled it in a bullitoyre with tartar and powdered common salt mixed with common water on the fire of his forge. Then he scrubbed it because he thought it was not neat enough. From this crust he burned tartar on a piece of paper until it was black and did not smoke anymore. Then he diluted this tartar into the water form the bullitoyre, and covered all his lizard with this. Then he put the lizard between red hot charcoals in the forge, and he blew a bit. When the lizard became red, he removed it, let it cool, then reheated it with the bullitoyre mixture, and scrubbed it into clear water.



left-bottom

+

Note that the bullitoyre for silver is not appropriate to use in a crucible because the tartar evaporates. But the vessel, being made of copper, is excellent to whiten silver and for the mixture which colors gold.



left-bottom

He made sure that his tartar water would not boil over, because its strength would disappear, so when this first boiling happens, remove it from the fire and put it on again. He held this burned tartar mixture put on low quality silver to be a secret.

