110v

http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/btv1b10500001g/f226.image



p110r_3

When a snake has eaten something; when twisting it, it will vomit the food. And if, after having eaten something, the snake is pressed underfoot, this troubles the snake a lot and makes it sick. If the snake is wounded, it will not eat voluntarily.

 



p110v_1Mussels

There is nothing better for opening them up than to oil them with olive oil, and nothing else. And afterwards, when you want to separate them, soak them in cold water; that is the secret. And you will see that the oil, although it seems to be imbued, will separate itself from the water as does grease. Mussels become stronger in cold water, and warm water would dissolve them with difficulty, although having been reheated, the mussels are then more handleable and easy to dissolve in the water.



p110v_2

Wheat oil

Is made on a blade of iron reddened in the fire, and the oil turns into drops, which is appropriate to oil the hair of a butterfly or similar thing, because this oil is instantly dry and makes the rest dry out.  It is necessary that the coat or down of any animal that you want to mold be flat, because if left standing up, it will make the sand raise up and form bubbles.

 

left-middle# If you want to mold something delicate, like a pansy, some, to give it a little thickness, more than what is natural, some rub it with butter.  But it is best to oil it with wheat oil because it has no opacity and does not block the smaller features as much, and makes the flower firmer.



p110v_3

A cast of lead or tin

Because you want to cast tin very thinly, if your medal, plant or other thing you want to mold is thin and fine, make sure to include more tin, much more than lead, namely less than the fourth part of lead for three of tin. And moreover, one only puts lead in as an alloy. Contrarily, if you want to mold something strong and thick, put a lot more lead in than tin. And for the one and the other you can put in a little looking-glass tin, but only a very little, with a little resin, when you want to cast.  Since then, when molding with pure new lead, I put in two ounces of pure tin for every pound of lead.  And when molding with pure tin, I put in two ounces of pure lead for every pound of tin. I made some plants and snakes as if they were real.

 

left-bottom

I cast tin when it was nearly red, and the same thing with lead, which however had not remained in the fire for too long, because it becomes brittle and burns up.

